~0day. Refers to the most bleeding-edge access to pirate releases. 
Its derivation is that access comes “0 days” since its release.
Addline. The  command  that  will  add  a  user  to  a  topsite. This 
command contains the user’s Internet Protocol (IP) details, 
ident mask, and other security features.

~Affiliate. An arrangement whereby a release group is associated 
with a topsite and “pres” its releases on that site. It can also 
refer to the affiliation of courier groups with a site.

~ASCII art. An artistic mode in which graphics are constructed 
from textual characters using the American Standard Code 
for Information Interchange.

~Autotrader.  A  courier  who  uses  software  to  transfer  releases 
between  topsites  automatically  without  any  human  inter-
vention.  It  is  also  used  to  refer  to  such  software  itself.  It  is 
generally frowned upon but is also a seemingly widespread 
practice.

~Bittorrent. A protocol for the distribution of content between 
peers. It is often but not exclusively used in the lower ech-
elons of the piracy hierarchy.

~Bouncer (BNC). A proxy to which users connect. These mecha-
nisms  hide  or  cloak  a  topsite’s  actual  IP  address.  Bouncers 
can handle either just the File Transfer Protocol (FTP) com-
mand channel or can also take the form of “traffic bouncer” 
that also masks the data stream. There are also IRC bouncers 
that keep users connected to an Internet Relay Chat server, 
which means that they do not have to reconnect to the server 
every time and that their connecting IP address remains hid-
den.

~Bulletin Board System (BBS). A precursor to the internet that 
offered dial-in access to a single machine. The Scene origi-
nated in BBS cultures and moved to the internet in the 1990s.
Courier.  An  individual  who  moves  releases  between  sites  to 
build ratio credit for download and to participate in courier 
charts. The act of transferring a release, in competition with 
other couriers, is called “racing.” Previously, in earlier BBSs, 
a courier was also referred to as a “broker.”

~Courier Charts. Competitive scoring systems that rank couri-
ers. Based on weektop scorecards.

~Crack.  A  modification  to  a  piece  of  software  that  removes  its 
copyright protection routines. Often bundled with releases.
Daemon. A piece of server software that runs as a background 
process,  rather  than  interactively.  Examples  include  web 
servers and FTP servers that serve remote users. Topsites use 
FTP daemons.

~Digital Rights Management (DRM). Programming routines that 
aim  to  make  it  impossible,  illegally,  to  copy  an  artefact. 
Cracks aim to circumvent DRM/TPM.

~Dupecheck. A database of previous scene releases, allowing a 
release group to ascertain whether a release is a duplicate of 
a previous work.

~Eggdrop.  A  piece  of  software  for  running  IRC  bots.  It  is  fre-
quently used to run topsite bots.

~Exif. Exchangeable image file format. An image file format that 
may contain metadata exposing the original source.

~File eXchange Protocol (FXP). The use of FTP to transfer files 
between two remote servers rather than the more common 
client-server architecture.

~File Transfer Protocol (FTP). A protocol for storing and retriev-

ing files from a remote server.

~FLAC.  The  Free  Lossless  Audio  Codec.  A  lossless  music  com-

pression format.

~FXP  board.  A  bulletin  board  or  forum  site  where  pirated  re-
leases are disseminated through hacked servers. It is a lower 

level of the Warez Scene that is strictly frowned upon by the 
topsite scene.

~Ident. A protocol specified in the specification document “RFC 
1413” (Request for Comment) that identifies the user of a par-
ticular TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) connection. It is 
used in the Scene to determine whether a user connecting to 
the topsite is authorized.

~Internal.  A  release  designed  only  for  dissemination  among 
members  of  the  release  group  itself.  Such  releases  are  not 
beholden to the same standards (e.g., dupecheck) as public 
releases.

~Internet  Relay  Chat  (IRC).  A  distributed  online  chat  system 
used by Sceners to communicate with one another. Site bots 
also post updates to the IRC channels of topsites.

~Keygen. A “key generator.” A piece of software that will produce 
a valid, but counterfeit, serial key or license for software that 
requires it. Often distributed with a release.

~Leet-speak.  A  contraction  of  “elite  speak” — a  form  of  slang 
communication that uses text and numbers. Often, the num-
bers “1337” or “31337” are used to mean “leet” of “eleet” for the 
digits’ resemblance to “e,” “l,” and “t.”

~MP3. The MPEG-2 Audio Layer III codec. A music compression 

format.

~NFO Files. Short for iNFOrmation file. A text file that contains 
information about a release. Usually also populated with AS-
CII art.

~Nuke. Both a noun and a verb. In its noun form, this refers to 
a “bad” release that has been marked as a rule violation at 
either  the  topsite-level  (a  violation  of  individual  site  rules) 
or Scene-level (a violation of release rule standards). Nuke as 
a verb refers to the act of marking a release as bad using the 
“site nuke” command.

~NukeNet. An inter-site system for nuking releases.
Nuker. A person with the role of nuking releases.
Pre. A noun and a verb. It is the moment at which a release is 

made available.

~Pre-spam.  The  act  of  posting  pre-announcements  in  order  to 
convey a message rather than to advertise the true availabil-
ity of a release. They are also used to catch autotraders.

~Race.  The  competitive  transfer  of  releases  between  topsites 
by couriers. The goal is to earn credits and to score highly 
enough to retain one’s account on the site. Statistics from this 
contribute to the weektop scorecard.

~Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID). This is a stor-
age  schema  that  makes  additional  copies  of  data  locally, 
spread across many different hard-disk drives (“striping”), in 
order to protect against the risk of catastrophic drive failure 
and data loss. Topsites use RAID to protect their archives.
Release. A pirate artefact, be it music, movies, software, games, 

etc.

~Release Group. A set of individuals working together to create 

releases.

~SceneBan. A lifetime ban instated on an individual for a serious 

infraction, such as being a law enforcement officer.

~Site. Short for topsite.

~Siteop. A site operator. The administrator who runs a topsite. 
These users may not be the site owner (i.e., the physical own-
er of the server).

~Topsite. An FTP server with a high-speed internet connection 
and vast amounts of storage space. It has affiliates, couriers, 
siteops,  nukers,  and  other  user  categories.  It  is  ranked  ac-
cording to various criteria for participation in courier charts.

~TPM. Technical Protection Measures (TPM). See DRM.
Weektop  Scorecard.  Also  referred  to  as  wkup  or  wktop.  The 
weekly positional ranking of couriers and release groups by 
the volume uploaded to a particular topsite. Used to create a 
competitive ambiance and Scene-wide scoring systems such 
as courier charts.

~Zipscript. A software routine that executes on a topsite while a 
release is being uploaded. This provides integrity checking, 
release tagging, and other “race” features.