warez

Before you start to read this book, take this 
moment  to  think  about  making  a  donation  to 
punctum books, an independent non-profit press,

@ https://punctumbooks.com/support/

If you’re reading the e-book, you can click on the 
image  below  to  go  directly  to  our  donations  site. 
Any amount, no matter the size, is appreciated and 
will help us to keep our ship of fools afloat. Contri-
butions from dedicated readers will also help us to 
keep our commons open and to cultivate new work 
that can’t find a welcoming port elsewhere. Our ad-
venture is not possible without your support.

Vive la Open Access.

Fig. 0. Hieronymus Bosch, Ship of Fools (1490–1500)

warez: the infrastructure and aesthetics of piracy. Copyright © 2021 
by Martin Paul Eve. This work carries a Creative Commons BY-NC-SA 4.0 In-
ternational license, which means that you are free to copy and redistribute the 
material in any medium or format, and you may also remix, transform and build 
upon the material, as long as you clearly attribute the work to the authors (but 
not in a way that suggests the authors or punctum books endorses you and your 
work), you do not use this work for commercial gain in any form whatsoever, 
and that for any remixing and transformation, you distribute your rebuild under 
the same license. http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/

First published in 2021 by dead letter office, babel Working Group, an imprint 
of punctum books, Earth, Milky Way.
https://punctumbooks.com

The babel Working Group is a collective and desiring-assemblage of scholar–
gypsies with no leaders or followers, no top and no bottom, and only a middle. 
babel roams and stalks the ruins of the post-historical university as a multiplic-
ity, a  pack, looking for other roaming packs with which to cohabit  and build 
temporary shelters for intellectual vagabonds. We also take in strays.

ISBN-13: 978-1-68571-036-1 (print)
ISBN-13: 978-1-68571-037-8 (ePDF)

doi: 10.53288/0339.1.00

lccn: 2021951510 
Library of Congress Cataloging Data is available from the Library of Congress 

Work on this book was made possible through the award of a Philip Lever-
hulme Prize from the Leverhulme Trust.

Book design: Vincent W.J. van Gerven Oei
Cover image: Ahmed Adly via Unsplash

punctumbooks

spontaneous acts of scholarly combustion

The Infrastructure and 
Aesthetics of Piracy

Martin Paul 
Eve

Contents

Acknowledgements 
Terminological Notes 
Glossary 

1. Original Pirate Material 
2. Setting the Scene 
3. Infrastructures of the Scene 
4. Organization 
5. Aesthetics 
6. Takedowns 

Conclusion 

Appendix: Topsites and Dumps in the  

shroo.ms nfo.sites Collection 

Bibliography 

xi
xv
xvii

21
57
105
145
203
253

285

293

367

 
 
Acknowledgements

Many individuals have helped me in the writing of this book. 
My thanks at punctum to Eileen Joy, Vincent W.J. van Gerven 
Oei, and Lily Brewer. For her brilliantly helpful suggestions on 
the  manuscript,  my  thanks  to  Virginia  Crisp.  Notably,  thanks 
also  to  Jamie  Harries,  Ronald  Snijder,  Paul  Tavner,  Jake  Bick-
ford, James Baker, and John Fink for responding to my queries 
on  degenerative  DRM.  I  owe  a  debt  to  Ben  Garrett  for  assem-
bling the DeFacto2 archive that underpins this work. My thanks 
go also to Iñigo Quilez for permission to include images of his 
DemoScene productions. With thanks to my friends, in no par-
ticular order: Joe Brooker, John and Caroline Matthews, Caro-
line Edwards, Iain Robert Smith, James and Holly Crow, Helen 
and Duncan Stringer, Alyson Jakes, Duncan Gray, Richard Hall, 
Hazel  and  Michael  Vanderhoeven,  Siân  Adiseshiah,  Ernesto 
Priego,  Ben  Johnson,  Lianne  de  Mello,  Julian  Cottee,  Doire-
ann Lalor, Mark Blacklock, Peter Christian, Roland Clare, Kay 
Mendlson,  Warren  Young,  Andy  Byers,  Mauro  Sanchez,  Rose 
Harris-Birtill,  Paula  Clemente  Vega,  Tom  Grady,  Jon  Fugler, 
Bryan Cheyette, Stephen Curry, Don Waters, Ross Mounce, To-
bias Steiner, and Sam Moore. Everyone at A Love From Outer 
Space. Friendship has sustained me through the writing of this 
book under difficult global circumstances. I hope to see you all 
on the other side of the coronavirus pandemic. My final thanks, 
as ever, go to my family — Gill Hinks, Rich Gray, Alyce Magritte, 
Nova Gray, Mina Gray, Susan Eve, Juliet Eve, Lisa Holloway, Ca-

xi

 
 
rin Eve, Anthony Eve, Julia Eve, Sam Jones, and Toby Eve — but 
especially, with all my love, to my wife, Helen.

xii

For Nova and Mina,
who will not know, for some time, what this book is about

and for James,
who already does.

Terminological Notes

Throughout this book, the terms “Warez Scene” and “the Scene” 
are capitalized in order to denote the underground movement. 
Other terms, such as NukeNets have some capitalisation where 
there  are  CamelCase  formulations,  while  some  roles  do  not. 
User nicknames are specified in the case used by the holder.

xv

 
 
Glossary

0day. Refers to the most bleeding-edge access to pirate releases. 
Its derivation is that access comes “0 days” since its release.
Addline. The  command  that  will  add  a  user  to  a  topsite. This 
command contains the user’s Internet Protocol (IP) details, 
ident mask, and other security features.

Affiliate. An arrangement whereby a release group is associated 
with a topsite and “pres” its releases on that site. It can also 
refer to the affiliation of courier groups with a site.

ASCII art. An artistic mode in which graphics are constructed 
from textual characters using the American Standard Code 
for Information Interchange.

Autotrader.  A  courier  who  uses  software  to  transfer  releases 
between  topsites  automatically  without  any  human  inter-
vention.  It  is  also  used  to  refer  to  such  software  itself.  It  is 
generally frowned upon but is also a seemingly widespread 
practice.

Bittorrent. A protocol for the distribution of content between 
peers. It is often but not exclusively used in the lower ech-
elons of the piracy hierarchy.

Bouncer (BNC). A proxy to which users connect. These mecha-
nisms  hide  or  cloak  a  topsite’s  actual  IP  address.  Bouncers 
can handle either just the File Transfer Protocol (FTP) com-
mand channel or can also take the form of “traffic bouncer” 
that also masks the data stream. There are also IRC bouncers 
that keep users connected to an Internet Relay Chat server, 
which means that they do not have to reconnect to the server 

xvii

 
 
warez

every time and that their connecting IP address remains hid-
den.

Bulletin Board System (BBS). A precursor to the internet that 
offered dial-in access to a single machine. The Scene origi-
nated in BBS cultures and moved to the internet in the 1990s.
Courier.  An  individual  who  moves  releases  between  sites  to 
build ratio credit for download and to participate in courier 
charts. The act of transferring a release, in competition with 
other couriers, is called “racing.” Previously, in earlier BBSs, 
a courier was also referred to as a “broker.”

Courier Charts. Competitive scoring systems that rank couri-

ers. Based on weektop scorecards.

Crack.  A  modification  to  a  piece  of  software  that  removes  its 
copyright protection routines. Often bundled with releases.
Daemon. A piece of server software that runs as a background 
process,  rather  than  interactively.  Examples  include  web 
servers and FTP servers that serve remote users. Topsites use 
FTP daemons.

DRM. Digital Rights Management. Programming routines that 
aim  to  make  it  impossible,  illegally,  to  copy  an  artefact. 
Cracks aim to circumvent DRM/TPM.

Dupecheck. A database of previous scene releases, allowing a 
release group to ascertain whether a release is a duplicate of 
a previous work.

Eggdrop.  A  piece  of  software  for  running  IRC  bots.  It  is  fre-

quently used to run topsite bots.

Exif. Exchangeable image file format. An image file format that 

may contain metadata exposing the original source.

File eXchange Protocol (FXP). The use of FTP to transfer files 
between two remote servers rather than the more common 
client-server architecture.

File Transfer Protocol (FTP). A protocol for storing and retriev-

ing files from a remote server.

FLAC.  The  Free  Lossless  Audio  Codec.  A  lossless  music  com-

pression format.

FXP  board.  A  bulletin  board  or  forum  site  where  pirated  re-
leases are disseminated through hacked servers. It is a lower 

xviii

glossary

level of the Warez Scene that is strictly frowned upon by the 
topsite scene.

Ident. A protocol specified in the specification document “RFC 
1413” (Request for Comment) that identifies the user of a par-
ticular TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) connection. It is 
used in the Scene to determine whether a user connecting to 
the topsite is authorized.

Internal.  A  release  designed  only  for  dissemination  among 
members  of  the  release  group  itself.  Such  releases  are  not 
beholden to the same standards (e.g., dupecheck) as public 
releases.

Internet  Relay  Chat  (IRC).  A  distributed  online  chat  system 
used by Sceners to communicate with one another. Site bots 
also post updates to the IRC channels of topsites.

Keygen. A “key generator.” A piece of software that will produce 
a valid, but counterfeit, serial key or license for software that 
requires it. Often distributed with a release.

Leet-speak.  A  contraction  of  “elite  speak” — a  form  of  slang 
communication that uses text and numbers. Often, the num-
bers “1337” or “31337” are used to mean “leet” of “eleet” for the 
digits’ resemblance to “e,” “l,” and “t.”

MP3. The MPEG-2 Audio Layer III codec. A music compression 

format.

NFO Files. Short for iNFOrmation file. A text file that contains 
information about a release. Usually also populated with AS-
CII art.

Nuke. Both a noun and a verb. In its noun form, this refers to 
a “bad” release that has been marked as a rule violation at 
either  the  topsite-level  (a  violation  of  individual  site  rules) 
or Scene-level (a violation of release rule standards). Nuke as 
a verb refers to the act of marking a release as bad using the 
“site nuke” command.

NukeNet. An inter-site system for nuking releases.
Nuker. A person with the role of nuking releases.
Pre. A noun and a verb. It is the moment at which a release is 

made available.

xix

warez

Pre-spam.  The  act  of  posting  pre  announcements  in  order  to 
convey a message rather than to advertise the true availabil-
ity of a release. They are also used to catch autotraders.

Race.  The  competitive  transfer  of  releases  between  topsites 
by couriers. The goal is to earn credits and to score highly 
enough to retain one’s account on the site. Statistics from this 
contribute to the weektop scorecard.

RAID. A Redundant Array of Independent Disks. This is a stor-
age  schema  that  makes  additional  copies  of  data  locally, 
spread across many different hard-disk drives (“striping”), in 
order to protect against the risk of catastrophic drive failure 
and data loss. Topsites use RAID to protect their archives.
Release. A pirate artefact, be it music, movies, software, games, 

etc.

Release Group. A set of individuals working together to create 

releases.

SceneBan. A lifetime ban instated on an individual for a serious 

infraction, such as being a law enforcement officer.

Site. Short for topsite.
Siteop. A site operator. The administrator who runs a topsite. 
These users may not be the site owner (i.e., the physical own-
er of the server).

Topsite. An FTP server with a high-speed internet connection 
and vast amounts of storage space. It has affiliates, couriers, 
siteops,  nukers,  and  other  user  categories.  It  is  ranked  ac-
cording to various criteria for participation in courier charts.

TPM. Technical Protection Measures (TPM). See DRM.
Weektop  Scorecard.  Also  referred  to  as  wkup  or  wktop.  The 
weekly positional ranking of couriers and release groups by 
the volume uploaded to a particular topsite. Used to create a 
competitive ambiance and Scene-wide scoring systems such 
as courier charts.

Zipscript. A software routine that executes on a topsite while a 
release is being uploaded. This provides integrity checking, 
release tagging, and other “race” features.

xx

..
.

Original Pirate Material

Some men rise, some men fall
I hear ya call, stand tall now
Has it come to this?
Original pirate material

— Th  e Streets, “Original Pirate Material”

Th  is is the fi rst scholarly research book about the “Warez Scene.” 
Th  e Warez Scene is a worldwide, underground, organized net-
work  of  pirate  groups  specializing  in  obtaining  and  illegally 
freely releasing digital media before their offi  cial sale dates.1 Th  is 
underground subculture, which began life in the pre-internet-
era Bulletin Board Systems (BBSs), moved to File Transfer Pro-
tocol (FTS) servers (also known as “topsites”) in the mid-to-late 
1990s.2  Th  e  “Scene,”  as  it  is  known,  is  highly  illegal  in  almost 
every  aspect  of  its  operation. Th  e  term  “warez”  itself  refers  to 

1  Th  is defi nition is derived from Virginia Crisp, Film Distribution in the 

Digital Age: Pirates and Professionals (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan, 
2017), 186. Alf Rehn, “Electronic Potlatch: A Study on New Technologies 
and Primitive Economic Behaviors” (PhD diss., Royal Institute of Technol-
ogy, 2001), 57–58, refuses to use the term “pirate” to refer to Scene groups. 
I dispute this decision, though, and use the formulation here throughout.
2  Patryk Wasiak, “‘Illegal Guys’: A History of Digital Subcultures in Europe 
during the 1980s,” Zeithistorische Forschungen/Studies in Contemporary 
History 9 (2012): 267.

 21

warez

pirated media, a derivative of “software.” This Warez Scene is an 
underground culture with its own norms and rules of participa-
tion, its own forms of sociality, and its own artistic outputs. This 
book describes and analyses what we know about this under-
ground culture, its operations, and its infrastructures.

Before I turn to this network, I want to talk about another 
criminal enterprise: the stock exchange. In early 2012, a com-
pany  called  Knight  Capital  developed  a  software  system  de-
signed to make them millions of dollars. The software worked at 
timescales lower than those possible for humans with a sophis-
ticated  high-frequency  trading  algorithm.  For  instance,  when 
the  software  detected  that  shares  had  begun  to  dip,  it  would 
sell its stock before price drops could do any financial damage. 
Likewise, searching for patterns in the data that people cannot 
perceive  within  an  actionable  timeframe,  the  software  looked 
for shares that appeared to be on the up and made purchases at 
a tremendous rate. It was a clever piece of software engineering 
and part of a broader societal obsession with acceleration that 
recognizes how speed is among the defining characteristics of 
contemporary  capital.  It  was  also  a  startling  example  of  what 
a  computational  approach  could  do  to  accelerate  traditional, 
stock-market trading in the service of profit.3

The only problem was that the trading software did not work 
as  intended.  In  fact,  Knight  Capital’s  software  worked  excep-
tionally  badly.  Losing  value  at  approximately  $10  million  per 
minute, it took almost an hour for a supervisor to realize the 
damage  and  for  the  company  to  shut  the  system  down.  After 
losing  $460  million  in  forty-five  minutes,  the  software  de-
stroyed  Knight  Capital’s  reputation  and  actual  value.  Yet,  the 
damage went far beyond this. Reputational waves spread quick-
ly through the stock exchange. The algorithm’s unusual trading 
activities caused a loss of confidence in the 150 or so companies 
affected by its operations. This disruption heralded the birth of 
the automated flash crash, the now periodic incursion of soft-

3  For more on speed, see also Rehn, “Electronic Potlatch,” 141.

22

original pirate material

ware system failure into social systems of corporate value and 
share circulation.4

My story of high finance points to an obsession with speed 
and competition in contemporary computation, but it also ges-
tures towards another structure: a competitive game. High-fre-
quency traders situate their servers immediately adjacent to the 
stock exchange so that they can race against one another on mil-
lisecond timescales. Recent advances in high-frequency trading 
have sought speed advantages of less than a billionth of a second 
at substantial cost.5 These traders use sophisticated software al-
gorithms  to  trade  automatically  and  much  more  quickly  than 
would be possible in a system overseen by human reactions. The 
top traders gain reputational supremacy for the success of their 
algorithms and the sophistication of their hardware. They put 
in many hours per week, usually excessively so, trading stocks 
and shares. They live a high-octane yet digitally mediated life. 
They  also,  of  course,  take  home  more  wealth  than  they  could 
ever hope to spend, hence my quip on the moral “illegality” of 
such undertakings.

This  is  not  a  book  about  the  stock  market.  But  this  tale  of 
high finance’s obsession with computational speed and automa-
tion, using light-speed hardware, deploying algorithmic trans-
fers, and featuring reputational predominance, is an obsession 
that resonates strongly with the pirates of the Warez Scene. For, 
as ironic as it may sound for a covert, illegal network, the Scene 
thrives  on  fierce  competition  for  cultural  capital  and  prestige 
among its members. For instance, as far back as 1997, journalists 
recognized that the primary sphere in which this Warez Scene 

4  Tim Harford, “High-Frequency Trading and the $440m Computer 

Glitch,” BBC News, August 11, 2012, https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/maga-
zine-19214294.

5  Alexander Osipovich, “High-Frequency Traders Push Closer to Light 

Speed with Cutting-Edge Cables,” Wall Street Journal, December 15, 2020, 
https://www.wsj.com/articles/high-frequency-traders-push-closer-to-
light-speed-with-cutting-edge-cables-11608028200.

 23

warez

operated was prestige rather than money.6 In this way, the Scene 
appears  strange  to  outsiders.  Most  people  assume  that  pirates 
conduct their activities to gain access to pirate material. They 
may even believe that pirates work for financial gain. While this 
may be true of the lower-level, pirate spaces of public peer-to-
peer (P2P) sharing sites, it is not the case of the Scene to which 
this book is devoted. The structures of the Scene and the moti-
vations of its participants are very different from those widely 
studied paradigms of public file trading.7 The piracy on which 
this book trains its gaze is piracy for piracy’s sake rather than 
for the actual access to the material gains of that digital piracy.
What could link this Warez Scene with high-frequency trad-
ing on the stock market? Strangely, the two groups have con-
verging  histories  and  parallel  mechanisms  of  action  that  sit 
symbiotically  as  frames  for  understanding  the  paradigms  of 
their birth. This link is odd because they would seem divided 
across the political spectrum and the line of legality. Commen-
tators  usually  consider  digital  piracy  in  anti-capitalist  terms 
(whatever  that  might  mean,  given  the  complexities  and  poly-
valences of the term “capitalism”). Indeed, it is an illegal activ-
ity in which supposed “free riders” seek to get “something for 
nothing”  at  the  expense  of  artists  and  developers,  an  aspect 
continually decried by many cultural producers and their rep-
resentatives.8 Conversely, stock trading is the epitome of capital; 
its high mass. Participants in this game seemingly invest their 
hard-earned cash into other businesses to see a commensurate 
return  on  investment,  which  supposedly  benefits  all  parties: 

6  David Pogue, “Some Warez over the Rainbow,” MacWorld, October 1997, 
https://cdn.preterhuman.net/texts/computing/macintosh/Macintosh.txt.

7  Clyde W. Holsapple et al., “Parameters for Software Piracy Research,” 

The Information Society 24, no. 4 (2008): 199–218; Andrew Sockanathan, 
“Digital Desire and Recorded Music: OiNK, Mnemotechnics and the 
Private BitTorrent Architecture” (PhD diss., Goldsmiths, University of 
London, 2011), 187.

8  For instance, see Nico van Eijk, Joost Poort, and Paul Rutten, “Legal, Eco-
nomic and Cultural Aspects of File Sharing,” Communications & Strategies 
77, no. 1 (2010): 35–54.

24

original pirate material

the company gains capital, the investor gains wealth, and soci-
ety gains the services of the corporation in question, under the 
invisible-handed “supervision” of price-pressure and markets.9
However, this caricature of two pugnacious spheres of activ-
ity squaring up against one another is little more than a stereo-
type and betrays a superficiality of understanding. In actuality, 
the motivations within each field are far more complex than this 
initial evaluation can countenance. Both sides actually share a 
common  goal — the  automation  of  their  various  practices  in 
order  competitively  to  outflank  other  players  for  a  capital  re-
turn  based  on  speed  within  a  game-like  environment;  that  is, 
algorithmic stock traders and high-level pirates both engage in 
games with an economic character. In the financial arena, this 
takes the form of algorithmic, high-frequency trading, in which 
the  software,  situated  on  high-bandwidth,  low-latency  servers 
directly adjacent to the major stock exchanges, conducts trades 
with only minor human interaction. However, an identical phe-
nomenon  has  developed  at  various  levels  of  the  Warez  Scene, 
in  which  couriers,  as  they  are  known,  use  similar  techniques 
to  ensure  that  they  beat  their  rivals  in  the  near-instantaneous 
transmission  of  copyrighted  material  from  server  to  server. 
Both spheres of activity use the same term to refer to this rise of 
algorithmically controlled transaction — autotrading.

Most important for the central argument that I will advance 
in this book is that the Warez Scene has economic competition 
and aesthetic styling at its heart, just like high-frequency trad-
ing. This parallel is none so evident in that there was even at one 
time a topsite called “The World Trade Center.”10 While the po-

9  Although, see William Davies, The Limits of Neoliberalism: Authority, Sov-
ereignty and the Logic of Competition (Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications, 
2014) for a history of this supervisory terminology with respect to mar-
kets. Wendy Brown, Undoing the Demos: Neoliberalism’s Stealth Revolution 
(New York: Zone Books, 2015) also provides a worthwhile critique of such 
cultures.

10  WTC, “World Trade Center Topsite (WTC-world.trade.center.1998.07.07.
nfo),” July 7, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

 25

warez

litical motivations of stock-market traders, as opposed to pirate 
groups, will vary in line with the type of capital with which they 
deal, that is, the symbolic versus the actual respectively, there is 
an  economic  logic  that  underwrites  the  cultural  and  aesthetic 
practices of the Warez Scene.11

How can we understand the culture of this Warez Scene as 
economic, and why should we? Certainly, Alf Rehn has already 
taken one approach to this in his unpublished PhD thesis, detail-
ing the Scene as a fractional economy.12 Yet as we will see, most 
of  the  announcements  put  out  by  members  of  this  subculture 
are keen to stress the importance of the non-pecuniary nature of 
their activities. Under such circumstances, it doesn’t seem very 
easy to imagine how this space, which is devoid of money, might 
be considered economic. To understand this characterization, it 
is necessary to turn briefly to the ideas of economics and capi-
tal that make such a statement possible. The sociologist Pierre 
Bourdieu  devoted  a  substantial  part  of  his  career  to  studying 
how  various  forms  of  capital — cultural,  social,  symbolic,  and 
material — can become interchangeable. For instance, the pos-
session of multiple forms of social and cultural capital (whom 
and what one knows, respectively) can translate into symbolic 
capital (prestige). Based on this prestige, one may, for example, 
be  employed  and  thereby  generate  material  capital  (money).13 
As a parallel example, consider that most academic publishing 
works  on  this  basis  of  capital  exchange.  Academics  are  rarely 
paid directly for the journal articles that they publish. Instead, 
they accumulate reputations based on the quality of their pub-
lished work. In turn, such reputation translates into being hired 

11  The economic character of the Warez Scene, on which this book expands, 
has already been addressed by Alf Rehn, “The Politics of Contraband: The 
Honor Economies of the Warez Scene,” The Journal of Socio-Economics 
33, no. 3 (July 2004): 359–74. I do not radically depart from the analysis in 
this paper but instead broaden and deepen our understanding by more 
explicitly setting out the activities undertaken in this subculture.

12  Rehn, “Electronic Potlatch,” 24.
13  See, for example, Pierre Bourdieu, Outline of a Theory of Practice, trans. 
Richard Nice (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1977), 180.

26

original pirate material

or being promoted. We can then perceive a system where a sym-
bolic  or  reputational  capital  (prestige)  transmutes  into  actual, 
material capital (money and wealth, albeit not as extensively as 
some may imagine).

We can perceive such fungibility of capital in the two spheres 
of  activity  with  which  I  opened  this  book.  It  is,  of  course,  ut-
terly  uncontentious  to  argue  that  the  accumulation  of  mate-
rial  capital  and  wealth  is  the  primary  aim  of  stock  exchange 
autotrading. However, it is not the only form of capital at play 
here, and this activity relies on the exchange of and negotiations 
for  other  types  of  capital.  A  trader’s  reputation  for  speed  and 
good algorithms will breed opportunities to tap into informa-
tion networks that will likely influence future success, a kind of 
“Matthew Effect” in which the rich become richer.14 By contrast, 
but also somehow in parallel, in the Warez Scene on which this 
book focuses, material capital is distinctly not the most critical 
form. Instead, that honor falls on the forms of prestige and so-
cial capital accumulated at significant personal and legal risk. In 
turn, however, these reputational capitals bring material advan-
tages to pirates as they will need never to purchase the media to 
which they have access.

Why should we think of this high-level piracy Scene in these 
terms  of  economics  and  capital?  My  fundamental  argument 
is  that  we  need  to  reconceptualize  the  Warez  Scene  to  under-
stand the psychology of those who participate within it. Douglas 
Thomas offers the traditional, and, as I argue, insufficient, ac-
count of the Warez Scene and its grounding in BBS cultures. He 
notes the emergence of a new “logic of reproduction” in which 
we erase the distinction between the original and the copy in the 
digital world. “Unlike aesthetic representation,” writes Thomas, 
“the  logic  of  code  does  not  exalt  the  original  over  the  copy.”15 

14  I have written previously about the Matthew Effect in Samuel Moore et al., 
“‘Excellence R Us’: University Research and the Fetishisation of Excel-
lence,” Palgrave Communications 3 (2017): 6, https://www.nature.com/
articles/palcomms2016105.

15  Douglas Thomas, “Innovation, Piracy and the Ethos of New Media,” in The 
New Media Book, ed. Dan Harries (London: British Film Institute, 2004), 

 27

warez

That  is,  in  the  digital  space,  we  usually  presume  that  once  we 
have crafted the original, its reproduction can occur ad infini-
tum without any detrimental loss. This reasoning leads to vari-
ous open-source software logics and the open-access movement 
in academic publishing. As I have argued, it can also lead to a 
type of digital commodity fetishism, where people mistake the 
near-zero cost of reproduction with a near-zero cost of produc-
ing the first copy.16 In the piracy space, it has led to the canonical 
formulation that pirates are merely taking advantage of the infi-
nite reproducibility of the internet to copy things “in the way the 
internet intended.” Information wants, commentators tell us, to 
be free. In the conventional understanding, pirates simply use 
the internet to get things free of charge.

My  argument  is  different.  I  argue  that  the  Warez  Scene  is 
an aesthetic subculture and an alternative reality game, fixated 
on originality.17 Members engage for enjoyment and the accu-
mulation of reputational capital rather than for the outcome of 
material wealth. I draw on several evidential bases to make this 
case.  As  one  example  of  this  alternative  lineage,  consider  the 
aesthetic  cultures  of  skill  in  pirates’  cracking  systems  for  soft-
ware.  The  1980s  cracking  Scene  was  born  alongside  the  legal, 
computer-art subculture known as the DemoScene, which con-
tinues today. In fact, software cracking was not illegal when it 
began, as my later history of the group Fairlight shows; it was a 
legal hobby.18 It is, in fact, the DemoScene with which the Warez 
Scene  shares  its  name.  The  DemoScene  is  a  subculture  where 
computer programmers, artists, and musicians build short but 
increasingly complex, procedural animations called “demos” to 
showcase  their  technological  mastery.  Often,  crackers  would 

84.

16  Martin Paul Eve, “The Great Automatic Grammatizator: Writing, Labour, 

Computers,” Critical Quarterly 59, no. 3 (October 2017): 39–54.

17  I use the term “alternative reality game” rather than “alternate reality 
game,” the preferred formulation in some of the secondary literature, 
purely out of a British English preference.

18  See Bryan Clough and Paul Mungo, Approaching Zero: Data Crime and the 

Computer Underworld (London: Faber & Faber, 1992), 61–84.

28

original pirate material

distribute these aesthetic showcases alongside their pirate works 
to demonstrate their “cool” credentials and technical ability. At 
the same time, the Warez Scene also disseminates information 
about  releases.  Such  information  consists  most  often  of  cred-
its for the cracking and dissemination, inside NFO (pronounced 
“info”) files. These files usually contain ASCII art alongside their 
information  that  provides  a  decorative  context  and  shows  off 
the artistic skills of the creator. In other words, core to the Warez 
Scene  is  a  set  of  aesthetic  artifacts  that  allow  participants  to 
showcase their “cred” and cool — forms of social capital.

In  this  book,  I  argue  that  to  understand  the  mentality  of 
those  who  participate  in  the  Warez  Scene,  it  is  first  necessary 
to  grasp  the  textual-artistic  histories  and  cultures  from  which 
they  emerged.  To  do  so,  I  turn  to  the  background  contexts  of 
the  DemoScene  and  chart  a  history  of  ASCII  Art  that  pays  at-
tention  to  computational  colonialism  hidden  within  its  walls, 
alongside a lineage of concrete poetry and information aesthet-
ics. One of the most curious aspects of the contemporary Scene 
is that aesthetic practices have always been core to its makeup, 
particularly  among  the  class  of  users  known  as  “crackers.”  To 
understand the Scene in its most recent iterations, we must look 
back to previous eras of home computer hobbyist culture begin-
ning in the late 1980s.

While the ethos that Thomas suggests of personal accumula-
tion and greed may be true for the development of widespread 
P2P networks, such as the famed history of Napster, the second 
part of my fundamental argument is that such a view is incor-
rect for the Warez Scene.19 This is because many philosophies of 
piracy focus on the primacy of the copy, that is, the notion that it 
is the copy in which pirates are interested. I argue that this is not 
true in the Scene. It is, in fact, ideas of originality and craft that 

19  For just a couple of sources on the role of Napster and the growth of 

P2P sharing, see Raymond Shih Ray Ku, “The Creative Destruction of 
Copyright: Napster and the New Economics of Digital Technology,” The 
University of Chicago Law Review 69, no. 1 (2002): 263–324, and Peter J. 
Alexander, “Peer-to-Peer File Sharing: The Case of the Music Recording 
Industry,” Review of Industrial Organization 20, no. 2 (2002): 151–61.

 29

warez

participants in this space value. As Rehn puts it, the Scene “is a 
meritocracy based on primacy, and the game of proving prima-
cy is never-ending.”20 Ironically, coming first must happen again 
and again and again. As I will show, the rules and strictures of 
the Scene centrally reinscribe such notions of originality and the 
importance of being the first to release the liberated copy. There 
is a fundamental valorization of the speed to a “new original.” A 
pirate release exalts the craft of the crack or the quality of media 
encoding. A pirate release showcases the business logic of swift-
ness and scarcity in a group’s supply chain. Hence, be it in the 
programming skill of cracking software, the care in ensuring the 
quality of a film release, or in the business acumen of a supplier 
who can obtain music before its release date, the Warez Scene 
values specific types of originality and skill, a far cry from most 
descriptions of pirate activity.

If  one  is  to  comprehend  this  ethos  of  software  piracy  as  a 
skilled aesthetic form, in which credit and authorship attribu-
tion  is  sought — as  pirate  material  and  with  originality — we 
must think of the Warez Scene more broadly than a culture in 
which  individuals  are  merely  “ripping  others  off.”21  Certainly, 
there are adverse, economic effects from the Scene upon those 
who create art forms and software. But the artifacts created by 
the Scene are probably best considered as remix productions, an 
aspect to which I will later return in more detail. In the case of 
software, for instance, these are code-based modifications that 
exhibit  skill  and  technicality  in  a  surface  reproduction  that  is 
identical  to  a  commercially  available  artifact  but  that  behave 
differently under the hood. In many ways, this is similar to the 
traditional reading of other subcultures that appropriate main-
stream objects and give them a fresh spin. The famed punk aes-

20  Rehn, “Electronic Potlatch,” 152.
21  This is akin to the pirate function that Kavita Philip outlines in her “What 
Is a Technological Author? The Pirate Function and Intellectual Property,” 
Postcolonial Studies 8, no. 2 (2005): 199–218.

30

original pirate material

thetic  is  a  canonical  example  of  how  commercially  produced 
objects were taken and repurposed.22

The  challenge  for  this  parallel  with  the  punk  scene  is  that 
the appropriated artifacts of the Warez Scene do not exhibit any 
external  semiotic  difference  from  the  originals.  Crackers  have 
modified  the  underlying  code  so  that  the  software  behaves  in 
the same way as the original. They are fabrications that act as 
perfect copies, “posing,” Hillel Schwartz tells us, as good copies 
do, “au naturel.”23 By way of an analogy: sophisticated cracking 
outfits  in  the  software  space  seek  to  reverse  engineer,  for  in-
stance, the oil painting, the Mona Lisa, only to recreate its ex-
act form except with acrylic paints. Of course, in one sense, the 
originality of pirate artifacts nonetheless remains “parasitic” on 
the “host” object and particularly the labor structures that en-
able original artistic production.24 At the same time, this yields 
the paradoxical formulation that I call the “warez aesthetic.” Ap-
propriating a line from the British hip-hop group The Streets, 
the  warez  aesthetic  is  a  sense  of  original,  pirate  material.  The 
warez aesthetic gives precise surface mimesis of an original, an 
“exact copy,” while valuing a new original construction behind 
the scenes — a construction that differs from the original; hence, 
original pirate material.

Reputations in the Scene are made or broken by the artistic 
successes of crackers, the business fluency of covert suppliers, 
and  the  skill  and  connectedness  of  their  couriers.  Those  who 
debate the originality of these works have had their day in court 
and  won.  There  is  no  disputing  the  Scene’s  illegality.  But  one 
has only to look at the development of various sampling music 

22  Johan Kugelberg and Jon Savage, Punk: An Aesthetic (New York: Rizzoli, 

2012).

23  Hillel Schwartz, Culture of the Copy: Striking Likenesses, Unreasonable 

Facsimiles (New York: Zone Books, 2014), 268. A parallel is also made by 
Maria Eriksson, “A Different Kind of Story: Tracing the Histories and Cul-
tural Marks of Pirate Copied Film,” Tecnoscienza: Italian Journal of Science 
& Technology Studies 7, no. 1 (2016): 100.

24  Alexander Sebastian Dent, “Introduction: Understanding the War on 

Piracy, Or Why We Need More Anthropology of Pirates,” Anthropological 
Quarterly 85, no. 3 (2012): 667.

 31

warez

cultures to see how the appropriation of existing work, remade 
into a new artifact, can have significant artistic merit and dem-
onstrate  skill  despite  the  courts’  injunctions.  The  problem  for 
the Scene with this argument, and the unfairness to those musi-
cal cultures, is that the Scene remakes artifacts that already ex-
ist, resituating them outside the sphere of monetary exchange. 
The  fundamental  question  then  becomes:  where  is  the  line  of 
originality inscribed? To what extent does the situation play a 
key role here? The readymade artifacts of the Modernist period, 
such as Marcel Duchamp’s famous urinal Fountain (1917), asked 
this question long before the digital era. Is art artistic merely be-
cause it is in a museum? The Scene prompts similar meta-crit-
ical reflections. Can originality be derived from the resituation 
of an artifact within a new distribution context and, especially, 
an illegal context?

At the same time, the Scene nonetheless has its own cultures 
of exchange, that is, a currency that attempts to situate itself out-
side of monetary transactions but that functions economically. 
It does not matter, as Thomas notes, that the Warez Scene deems 
itself beyond money and refuses to operate on any paysite basis. 
The  basic  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  Sceners  compete  for  pres-
tige, which translates into site access, which translates into ac-
cess to warez — about which they care relatively little — but also 
into reputation, esteem, and prestige — about which they care a 
great deal. This misunderstanding of the Scene’s psychological 
profile  and  behavioral  characteristics  has  rendered  most  law-
enforcement  efforts  ineffectual.25  Tracing  the  Scene’s  roots  to 
aesthetic practices that value scarcity, primacy, originality, skill, 
craft,  elitism,  organization,  rankings,  prestige,  reputation,  and 
even trustworthiness, honor, and loyalty, allows us much better 
to get inside the mind of the high-level pirate.

It is also the case that the Scene is composed of many discrete 
sub-Scenes that carry different levels of prestige. Being able to 
access retail music at the same time as the general public will 

25  Eric Goldman, “A Road to No Warez: The No Electronic Theft Act and 
Criminal Copyright Infringement,” Oregon Law Review 82 (2003): 371.

32

original pirate material

hardly  confer  the  same  degree  of  reputation  as  someone  who 
can  obtain  PlayStation  games  five  months  before  launch.  As  I 
will go on to discuss, each of these sub-Scenes has its own set of 
rules, norms, cultures, procedures, and senses of humor, among 
other  elements.  Given  this,  why  do  I  focus  on  the  Scene  as  a 
whole as though it were a total, coherent entity? First, because 
there is overlap. Sections for MP3, for example, exist on the same 
topsites as those specializing in games and films. Sites wish to 
offer their users a range of pirate media forms. So the MP3 Scene 
touches on the movie Scene and the console Scene. (That said, 
because those working in the ISO Games Scene may look down 
on MP3 suppliers, it is sometimes the case that music sections 
are  isolated  from  other  areas.)  Second,  because  the  evidential 
bases  for  each  sub-Scene  are  themselves  relatively  small.  We 
know about the Scene only through leaks and pirate archives. If 
we subdivided down and saw no commonality between differ-
ent sub-Scenes working in different media forms, there would 
be  barely  sufficient  documentation  to  understand  its  working 
as a whole. So treating the Scene as a whole means that I can 
study several cultures under one bracket and use more evidence, 
albeit with some loss of resolution and specificity.

This  framing  of  a  prestige-accumulation  operation,  which 
spans  all  of  these  sub-Scenes,  leads  to  the  other  novel  lens 
through which I analyze the Warez Scene in this book: As an 
alternative (or alternate) reality game. Alternative reality games 
(ARGs),  as  set  out  by  Antero  Garcia  and  Greg  Niemeyer,  are 
challenging to define. Still, they have the broad characteristics of 
being world-making exercises that feature competitive/play-like 
or gamified activities in which the essence of the world “only ex-
ists when [the games] are played, and there really is very little to 
hold on to at the end of the game, save for the transformative ex-
periences of the players.”26 ARGs, therefore, can be “broadly un-
derstood as digitally-mediated games that transpire within the 

26  Antero Garcia and Greg Niemeyer, “Introduction,” in Alternate Reality 
Games and the Cusp of Digital Gameplay, eds. Antero Garcia and Greg 
Niemeyer (New York: Bloomsbury Academic, 2017), 1.

 33

warez

‘real,’ physical world.”27 ARGs consist of three components: They 
are alternative; they are realities; and they are, in some senses, 
games. The Scene has all of these characteristics.

An  essential  component  of  the  last  of  these  fronts — that 
ARGs are, in some ways, games — is that they have rules. ARGs 
contain a structured mediation between a set of rule-like prin-
ciples and players pushing against those boundaries. “In ARGs,” 
write Garcia and Niemeyer, “the rules of the game superimpose 
a novel, subversive order on the grid of a city.”28 In the case of 
the Warez Scene, this city is the internet and its legitimate chan-
nels of sale and distribution. As Chapter Four shows, the Warez 
Scene overlays a set of subversive but binding rules and quality 
standards as a quasi-judicial principle over the everyday norms 
of the net. “Every ARG,” continue Garcia and Niemeyer, “enacts 
that fundamental political power of bringing many individuals 
into an articulated organized community.”29 These are core ac-
tivities of the rule-making elements of the Scene. Their function 
is to create a bound virtual communitarian space.

At  the  same  time,  though,  there  is  a  temptation  to  see 
transgressive  potential  in  this  rule-enforced  aspect  of  ARGs.  It 
is  easy  to  imagine  that  whenever  users  test  the  bounds  of  the 
rules to modify their reality, this is evidence that the “game is 
a meaningful, vox populi alternative to corporate order.”30 This 
is not the case in the Scene, as it is not in many ARGs. Instead,  
“[c]orporate  order  is  often  camouflaged,”  and  that  which 
seemed “diverse, approachable, and horizontal, is in fact often 
highly centralized.”31 Bearing more than a passing resemblance 
to the formulation of a “community of dissensus” that Bill Read-
ings once used to characterize the contemporary university, the 
systems  of  rule  formation  in  the  Scene  are  nonetheless  often 

27  Ibid., 10.
28  Ibid., 4.
29  Ibid.
30  Ibid.
31  Ibid.

34

original pirate material

hierarchically  determined.32  This  is  a  continual  refrain  of  this 
book: the Warez Scene is not genuinely transgressive. Piracy at 
this level does not, as Michael Strangelove has claimed, under-
mine the very definitional aspects of capitalism.33 It is, in reality, 
a system that reproduces the logics of contemporary capital and 
exchange within its own competitive frameworks. For this very 
reason, I opened by comparing the Scene to the world of high-
finance trading systems. The game part of ARGs is evident in the 
Scene because it sets up a playing space with ultra-competitive 
rules. And the specific game is an exchange of different forms 
of capital.

The gamified nature of the Scene may not always be evident to 
its participants. Indeed, many ARGs deliberately seek to obscure 
their  game-like  basis  and  the  sense  of  playing  that  goes  with 
it. As Montola and Stenros document, an early ARG called The 
Beast — a tie-in with Steven Spielberg’s film A.I. (2001) — went 
under the slogan “TINAG,” This Is Not A Game. As they note for 
The  Beast,  “[t]he  total  denial  of  the  gameness  was  the  design 
principle. Everything had to look and feel as much as possible 
like it was real and believable.”34 That said, it is not universally 
the  case  that  ARGs  deny  their  game-like  natures.  Reality  Ends 
Here  and  Ingress  both  operate  on  the  premise  of  being  other 
spaces, while Virtual Reality (VR) games such as Superhot fea-
ture interlude cut-scenes where the user dons a VR headset in 
the VR space. Yet, the denial that one is playing a game has been 
central to these modes from the start.35

32  Bill Readings, The University in Ruins (Cambridge: Harvard University 

Press, 1996), 19–20.

33  Michael Strangelove, The Empire of Mind: Digital Piracy and the Anti-
Capitalist Movement (Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 2005).
34  Markus Montola and Jaakko Stenros, “Case B: The Beast,” in Markus 

Montola, Jaakko Stenros, and Annika Wærn, Pervasive Games: Theory and 
Design (Boston: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 2009), 27.

35  On Reality Ends Here, see Jeff Watson, “Games Beyond the ARG,” in Alter-
nate Reality Games and the Cusp of Digital Gameplay, eds. Antero Garcia 
and Greg Niemeyer (New York: Bloomsbury Academic, 2017), 187–210. 
On Ingress, see Thaiane Moreira de Oliveira, “‘Ingress’: A Restructuring of 
the ARG or a New Genre? An Ethnography of Enlightened and Resistance 

 35

warez

It is in the denial of game-like-ness that ARGs begin to be-
come realities. As Rehn notes, “[w]hat goes on in the [S]cene 
can be and obviously feel like ‘just’ a computer game, but the in-
volved are at least to some extent aware of how seriously outsid-
ers take their activities.”36 Players of ARGs often take their alter-
native worlds somewhat too seriously and end up blurring the 
boundaries between their game space and the real world, either 
mistaking the game for reality or reality for the game. There is, 
writes Jane McGonigal, “a tendency to continue seeing games 
where games don’t exist.”37 That said, as Stephen Kline, Nick Dy-
er-Witheford, and Greig De Peuter put it, pirating material is a 
kind of fun game. “We may,” they write, “even get a charge out of 
cracking the various technological systems while Microsoft or 
Sony try to keep us out: hell, it’s just another level to the game.” 
Even while corporate organizations attempt to gamify work, a 
model  in  which  “work-as-fun”  becomes  a  dominant  business 
principle, I contend that the Scene’s organization of “piracy-as-
play” is the logical counterpoint to this.38

It  is  also  hard  to  find  one’s  way  into  the  Scene.  This  hid-
denness  is  characteristic  of  ARGs,  which  often  have  obscure 
entry  points  and  are  conventionally  referred  to  as  “rabbit 
holes” — points of ingress that lure in new users searching for 

Factions in Brazil,” in Alternate Reality Games and the Cusp of Digital 
Gameplay, eds. Garcia and Niemeyer, 288–310. For more on computer 
games that have computers in them, see Ian Bogost, “Persuasive Games: 
Process Intensity and Social Experimentation,” Gamasutra, May 23, 2012, 
https://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/170806/persuasive_games_pro-
cess_.php.

36  Rehn, “Electronic Potlatch,” 235.
37  Jane McGonigal, “‘This Is Not a Game’: Immersive Aesthetics and Collec-

tive Play,” in Melbourne DAC 2003 Streamingworlds Conference Proceedings 
(Melbourne: Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology University, 2003), 
5.

38  Stephen Kline, Nick Dyer-Witheford, and Greig De Peuter, “Workers and 
Warez: Labour and Piracy in the Global Game Market,” in Digital Play: 
The Interaction of Technology, Culture, and Marketing, eds. Stephen Kline, 
Nick Dyer-Witheford, and Greig De Peuter (Montreal: McGill-Queen’s 
University Press, 2003), 198.

36

original pirate material

clues.39  For  Garcia  and  Niemeyer,  “a  ‘good’  rabbit  hole  is  one 
that, for those not looking for clues, blends into the background 
and noise of the world.”40 Much of the Scene’s structure focuses 
on  ensuring  that  points  of  entry,  its  rabbit  holes,  are  obscure. 
The question with which the Scene must wrestle, of course, is: 
How  does  one  recruit  new  talent  to  one’s  illegal  underground 
group without making it obvious to law enforcement how to get 
in touch? The usual solution is advertorial NFOs with tantalizing 
mentions  of  “you  know  where  to  find  us”  and  similar  bread-
crumbs.  Even  the  Scene’s  esoteric  naming  conventions  appear 
to present an intriguing rabbit hole where a user may question 
why the piece of music they have illegally downloaded carries 
such an overloaded folder structure (e.g., “Aeon_Zen-Inveritas-
WEB-2019-ENTiTLED,”  which  is  the  naming  structure  of  a 
Scene music release). Of course, a genuinely enterprising user 
would begin to read, trying to learn where to find the Scene. But 
the entrances to such rabbit holes are few and far between, de-
liberately made obscure both for operational safety and to retain 
the mystique and exclusivity of the Scene.

The type of game rubric under which we can categorize the 
Warez Scene has been provided most succinctly by Ian Bogost.41 
Bogost  refers  to  and  delineates  a  subset  of  ARGs  that  “create 
their unique open social-code-driven play experiences” through 
“means  of  very  small  system  designs,  using  just  enough  mul-
timedia  materials  to  glue  the  whole  thing  together.” These  are 
games that “are neither multimedia games nor are they games 
without system design.” But they do have a minimal aesthetic 
and they do also have design principles. However, “[w]e might,” 
writes Bogost, “call such works games of social experimentation, 
for their primary aesthetic force arises from social behavior in-
spired by a specific system.” That is to say that, for Bogost, there 
is a whole set of ARGs “in which players can devise their own ac-

39  Dave Szulborski, This Is Not a Game: A Guide to Alternate Reality Gaming 

(Macungie: New-Fiction Publishing, 2005), 49.

40  Garcia and Niemeyer, “Introduction,” 15.
41  The quotes in this paragraph are attributed to Bogost, “Persuasive Games.”

 37

warez

tivities within the confines of the simulation.” This is very much 
how the Warez Scene works. There are codified norms of behav-
ior (e.g., system design) in which users interact socially in dif-
ferent ways from the world at large. A low-grade aesthetic (e.g., 
ASCII art and DemoScene executables) provides an alternative 
context of retro multimedia “cool,” even while this does not ap-
pear central. And players operate in a reality where their own 
aesthetic stylings and systems of respect are of the utmost im-
port. The Warez Scene sets up a gaming environment and asks 
users to compete within that structure. Perhaps the difference 
in this space to other ARGs is that the penalties for failing at the 
game are severe: Jail time. At this point, the real world intersects 
with the alternative reality of the Scene.

Yet, we should also not neglect the “alternative reality” por-
tion of ARGs. The curious thing about this book is that I have to 
talk about an entire online world or community of practice that 
does not exist for most readers. “To play an ARG,” write Garcia 
and Niemeyer, “is to dive into a counter-narrative in medias res, 
and to co-generate story, strategy, and collaboration in real time, 
in real place.”42 The reality of this alternative world, though, is 
unassailable for those who exist within it. This extra-geographic 
yet  territorial  nature  of  the  Scene  leads  Rehn  to  refer  to  it  as 
though  it  were  somehow  a  separate  country  of  “Warezonia.”43 
Yet the Scene does exist in our reality. Topsites, dupe databases, 
and the releases themselves are very much real.

However,  the  world  I  describe  will  seem  alien  and  foreign 
to most readers. For instance, the rules of this subculture seem 
incomprehensibly  hypocritical:  a  release  group  may  not  steal 
the work of a rival release group, even as the goal is to steal the 
original artifact from the creator. A release group may not du-
plicate the releases of another group, even while the very goal is 
duplication of the original. Sites specializing in giving material 
away for free, seemingly in an egalitarian spirit, have hierarchi-
cal structures of exclusion. “Lamers” will not be tolerated. The 

42  Garcia and Niemeyer, “Introduction,” 5.
43  Rehn, “Electronic Potlatch,” 32.

38

original pirate material

Scene will scorn “newbies.” Authority will accrue to those who 
have been longest in the Scene. That is, authority will stick to 
those who have spent the most extended period defying the au-
thority of the law. Consistency is not the motto of the Scene. Yet, 
these hypocritical norms have been internalized and are just a 
way of life for those on the inside. They are unassailable bounds 
of daily operations, the Scene’s business as usual.

There are other characteristics of the Scene that look like an 
ARG.  For  instance,  Markus  Montola,  Jaakko  Stenros,  and  An-
nika  Wærn  describe  a  system  of  “onion”-layered  participation 
in such games, where there are those on the fringes and those at 
the core.44 Participants interact with one another and work as a 
whole to structure the world. However, in the Scene, some par-
ticipants are disposable compared to others. For instance, trad-
ers and couriers are easily replaced, even though they participate 
heavily, often for hours and hours per week. On the other hand, 
software crackers, who are highly skilled, are indispensable and 
irreplaceable. Their skillsets are in demand and not easy to repli-
cate. Just as “[d]ifferent players have unequal levels of participa-
tion within an ARG,” the Scene is hardly a flat hierarchy.45

Paul  Virilio’s  formulation  of  a  split,  stereoscopic  or  stereo-
phonic  reality  is  a  helpful  framework  for  understanding  the 
Scene’s existence as an alternative reality within an alternative 
reality game.46 In a culture of digital globalization, Virilio sug-
gests, it becomes necessary “to split the reality of the world in 
two.”47 “As,” he writes, “with stereoscopy and stereophony, which 
distinguish left from right, bass from treble, to make it easier to 
perceive audiovisual relief, it is essential today to effect a split in 
primary reality by developing a stereo-reality, made up on the 
one  hand  of  the  actual  reality  of  immediate  appearances  and, 
on the other, of the virtual reality of media trans-appearances.”48 

44  Montola, Stenros, and Wærn, Pervasive Games, 120–21.
45  Garcia and Niemeyer, “Introduction,” 6.
46  This is gestured to by McGonigal, “‘This Is Not a Game’.”
47  Paul Virilio, The Information Bomb, trans. Chris Turner (London: Verso, 

2005), 15.

48  Ibid.

 39

warez

Th  e Scene is of this nature, existing in two spaces at once, pro-
ducing  the  requirement  to  “read  two  diff erent  worlds  at  the 
same time.”49 A world within a world, separate from ours, with 
diff erent rules and codes of conduct, the Scene is like a game but 
nonetheless a reality, albeit an alternative one.

                      #   # 
                       # # 
                     #######
                       # # 
                      #   # 

Th  e  high-level  Warez  Scene  has  existed  for  several  decades 
now and has taken various guises, although research into it is 
oft en said to be relatively scarce. It has been called “one of the 
least researched” fi elds of cybercrime.50 As Sigi Goode puts it, 
“[t]here has been comparatively little research into the behav-
iour and makeup of piracy groups.”51 Th  at said, having complet-
ed  work  on  this  book,  I  now  think  this  oft -repeated  assertion 
to  be  untrue.  Th  e  belief  that  the  Scene  is  unresearched  stems 
from the fact that there is relatively scant, popular knowledge 
of  its  activities.  However,  this  is  not  the  same  as  a  fi eld  being 
unresearched.  In  reality,  as  my  bibliography  attests,  there  is  a 
substantial volume of research material on the Warez Scene. Th  e 
work of Bodó Balázs, Virginia Crisp, David Décary-Hétu, Nick 
Dyer-Witheford, Eric Goldman, Maria Eriksson, Alf Rehn, An-
drew Sockanathan, and others, all point to a disaggregated com-
munity of scholarship that has investigated this subculture. Th  e 
approaches have been diverse and range from legal analyses to 

49  Garcia and Niemeyer, “Introduction,” 9.
50  David Décary-Hétu, Carlo Morselli, and Stéphane Leman-Langlois, 

“Welcome to the Scene: A Study of Social Organization and Recognition 
among Warez Hackers,” Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency 49, 
no. 3 (2012): 361.

51  Sigi Goode, “Exploring the Supply of Pirate Soft ware for Mobile Devices: 
An Analysis of Soft ware Types and Piracy Groups,” Information Manage-
ment & Computer Security 18, no. 4 (2010): 220.

40

original pirate material

socio-technical studies via economic appraisals. This work re-
mains, nonetheless, the first book solely about the Scene.

The knowledge of the Warez Scene that I describe in this book 
arises from the study of pirate archives, garnered from the open 
web, but in general terms, it handles material from around the 
turn of the millennium. Certainly, others such as David Tetzlaff 
have  worked  to  chart  different  epochs  of  the  Scene’s  develop-
ment, such as an era of Hotline chats and so forth.52 The period 
and practices that I map cover the time when the topsite Scene 
came of age — a point of significant capacity scaling and strange 
formalization  despite  the  distributed  and  somewhat  anarchic 
nature of the Scene. In other senses though, the historicization 
of this book is not rigorous and precise. The artifacts to which I 
had access cover a relatively broad duration of several decades. 
In particular, topsite NFOs tend to come from an earlier period 
and may now be grossly outdated, while contemporary release 
NFOs are still available and reflect current Scene practice. These 
are analyzed herein as though they were a single historical unit, 
produced from the same time period. This may be too much of 
a simplification, but it is the only way to handle such breadth of 
material while presenting a coherent narrative.

It  is  also  worth  noting  upfront  that  there  are  challenges  of 
legality in reporting on the Warez Scene, which is obviously a 
space  in  which  the  participants  are  conducting  illegal  activi-
ties. The Internet Relay Chat (IRC) channels within which most 
discussions have taken place have a strict honor code that en-
tails  a  “no  logging”  principle.  Only  through  the  violation  of 
these codes is the material on which I report brought to light. 
Further,  there  is  no  way  the  participants  in  this  environment, 
none  of  whose  true  identities  were  ever  known  to  me,  would 
consent  to  be  studied.  While  I  handle  this  question  of  ethics 
more thoroughly below, this book avoids most ethical problems 
by focusing on the structures of the Scene in total, read out of 

52  David Tetzlaff, “Yo-Ho-Ho and a Server of Warez,” in The World Wide Web 
and Contemporary Cultural Theory: Magic, Metaphor, Power, eds. Andrew 
Herman and Thomas Swiss (New York: Routledge, 2000), 99–126.

 41

warez

the documents that have surfaced into the public realm, rather 
than  examining  individuals.  In  this  respect,  this  book  differs 
greatly  from  other  anthropological  studies  of  hacker  cultures, 
such as those charted in the recent digital ethnographic work of 
Gabriella Coleman.53 I do not interview Sceners, and I have not 
tracked  down  their  channels  online,  although  I  have  received 
the  occasional  email  from  purported  members  of  this  culture 
interested in this book. Instead I work within a framework for 
the ethnographic study of the documentary emergence of insti-
tutions and practices.

digital archives and ethics

How do we know, then, what we know about the Warez Scene? 
If this space is so secret and closely guarded, how can I write a 
book about it? What kind of documentary evidence could serve 
to back up readings and understandings of practice?

Although  the  Scene  is  highly  private,  participants  leak  in-
formation, and there are now specific archives dedicated to its 
documentation. One of the core features that makes this pos-
sible is that the Scene thrives on word of mouth and bragging 
documents. Participants balance the secrecy of topsites against a 
need to show off and to declare how powerful a site is. Given the 
nostalgic investment that many Scene users have — after all, it is 
frequently,  although  not  always,  an  activity  conducted  in  par-
ticipants’ teenage years — it is not surprising that archives have 
emerged that chart the workings of the Scene.

An excellent example of this documentation is how sites have 
zipscripts that generate NFOs. While these are covered in more 
detail later, the point is that when release groups upload pirate 
releases to sites, these servers add a file that documents their ex-
istence. Usually, this file states that the release was at the site be-
fore a user had it. For instance, the NFO of “Distorted Illusions” 

53  Gabriella Coleman, Coding Freedom: The Ethics and Aesthetics of Hacking 

(Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2012).

42

original pirate material

adds, as a note, “remember we had it first!”54 These site NFO files 
sometimes boast of the hardware, speed of internet connection 
(“Powered  by  155Mbits”),  and  affiliated  release  groups.55  These 
documents also often reveal the location of the sites. For exam-
ple, the file may specify that, for a particular release group, the 
site is the “European HQ” or “Polish HQ.” The Appendix in this 
book details the sites known to us via the so-called “shrooms.
ms site.nfos” pack from the DeFacto2 archive. Of course, such 
NFO files are a serious security risk. A true, security-conscious 
environment would not risk disseminating a site’s name, loca-
tion, siteops’ names, and other information. It would, instead, 
lie low. As we shall see, the problem is that the fun of the Scene, 
the reason most of its participants invest in this alternative real-
ity game, comes from competition and bragging. These files, a 
risk, are how Sceners earn street cred.

Every release also has an NFO that specifies details of the re-
lease group, information about the release itself, and other as-
sorted  snippets  of  information.  These  documents  can  help  us 
garner a picture of the interlocking relationship between groups. 
They also demonstrate their practices (e.g., the types of affilia-
tion that release groups request reflects an evolution of software 
and hardware setups in the topsite network).

Furthermore, “Scene magazines” report on activities in this 
underground network. Articles in these magazines cover “cou-
rier  reports”  (i.e.,  ranking  courier  groups),  reviews  of  pirated 
software and films, and various interviews and pieces of “Scene 
history.”56 These documents, somewhat hard to come by, chart a 
selective but informative path to understanding the practices of 
the Warez Scene. In a knowing wink to future historians, many 

54  DI, “Distorted Illusions Topsite (DI-distorted.illusions.XXXX.XX.01.nfo),” 

n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

55  VDR, “Virtual Dimension Research Lake Topsite (VDR-vdr.

lake.1998.02.09.nfo),” February 9, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collec-
tion.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

56  See, for instance: lester, “Which Ftpd Is Right for You?” Netmonkey Weekly 

Report (Nwr36.Txt), February 22, 1999.

 43

warez

of these magazines specifically refer to their reports as “biased” 
(e.g., “Lester’s biased courier report”).

Various  documentation  projects  have  sought  to  build  cen-
tralized  archives  of  these  files.  Among  the  most  prominent  of 
these at the time of writing is the DeFacto2 archive, which aims 
to  host  “FTP  session  captures  and  user  logs,”  “[o]ld  daemons 
from the 1990s and 2000s,” “[c]racktros, crack-tros, intros,” and 
“[m]agazines  and  publications.”57  This  archive  hosts  many  of 
these file types and offers insight into the practices — pragmatic, 
cultural, and aesthetic — of the Scene. However, it is unclear to 
what extent the archive operators have filtered the records. Most 
of the material in DeFacto2 comes from around the turn of the 
millennium. In soliciting material, the operators write, “[d]on’t 
worry if you feel the files are too new or irrelevant, send them up 
anyway.”58 They also note though that they “will filter through 
what [they] can use.”59 While this does not provide us with any 
information  about  why  they  would  filter  through  records,  we 
can surmise that it is concerned with legality. The archive does 
not host any copyright-infringing material, except for the NFO 
files, which themselves are under copyright, albeit a copyright 
that the authors will never enforce. It must also have something 
to do with non-incrimination. By detailing the Scene’s history 
from  twenty  years  ago,  the  chance  of  an  indictment  resulting 
from the files is meager. After all, the statute of limitations pe-
riod will have passed in many cases, although this will vary by 
international jurisdiction. Conversely, it is essential to note that 
the  DeFacto2  archive  does  refer  pseudonymously  to  siteops, 
nukers, couriers, and other individuals who, at one time, oper-
ated an illegal network of topsites.

I  should  broach  one  final  question  at  this  point:  how  reli-
able are the DeFacto2 archive and other Scene archival sources? 
Most of the sources I draw upon in this book are of an in-world, 

57  DeFacto2, “Wanted Uploads,” GitHub, March 25, 2019, https://github.com/

Defacto2/defacto2.net.

58  Ibid.
59  Ibid.

44

original pirate material

or even in-game, nature. They describe an online reality that is 
unfamiliar to outsiders, from the inside. Authors, as in any con-
text, modify their statements to portray themselves in the best 
light possible. Therefore, I take all Scene documentary sources 
with a pinch of salt. While Sceners do not have any reason to 
hide the illegality of their actions, they frequently engage in in-
ternecine conflicts and other factional activities that may shape 
their writing.

Tying in with my earlier observations on the alternative real-
ity structure of the Scene, it is also notable that Sceners tend to 
write  as  though  the  world  in  which  they  operate  is  the  world 
as a total. They are usually so inside the system that they take 
for granted its norms, rules, regulations, procedures, processes, 
and rhythms. But in many ways the Scene is a fantasy land. It is 
an artificial construct that members have made. This does not 
mean that it is less real, but it lends a slightly strange character 
to these documents.

The nearest analogy to this situation is the work chronicling 
the virtual space of the computer game Minecraft and, especially, 
the oldest-running “anarchy server,” 2builders2tools (2b2t). This 
server is essentially a multiplayer Minecraft environment where 
there  are  no  rules.  This  anarchy  has  led  to  a  whole  swathe  of 
media coverage and the assertion from at least one participant 
that “[e]xploring 2b2t is like archaeology. […] There’s so much 
that  it  says  about  the  nature  of  Minecraft  itself  and  about  the 
design of the game. 2b2t deserves a book.”60 It seems that 2b2t 
serves as a crucible for studying unchecked, anonymous, human 
behavior. The server has seen Nazi propaganda and cultures of 
destruction, and it is generally highly nihilistic. While Minecraft 
was designed for children, 2b2t is an R-rated experience. As one 
write-up put it, it is “a place of hostile users who drop the N- and 
F-words  in  chat,  and  build  landscape-dominating  swastikas.”61 

60  Roisin Kiberd, “The Minecraft Server That Will Kill You 1,000 Times,” 
Newsweek, September 15, 2016, https://www.newsweek.com/2016/09/23/
minecraft-anarchy-server-2b2t-will-kill-you-498946.html.

61  “2b2t Photodiary: Inside Minecraft’s Most Offensive Server,” PCGamesN, 
October 17, 2016, https://www.pcgamesn.com/minecraft/2b2t-photodiary-

 45

warez

Most notably, while Minecraft is supposed to be a game about 
cooperative building, in the 2b2t landscape, so-called “griefers” 
travel the landscape destroying the work of others. Rival factions 
gather to build and protect their landscape against enemies. The 
server is the computer-Lego equivalent of Cormac McCarthy’s 
dystopian, post-apocalyptic environment in The Road (2006).

Yet what is perhaps most useful about the world of 2b2t for 
the analysis in this book is how users themselves chronicle an 
in-game  history.  The  2b2t  Wiki  offers  a  history  of  the  server 
over  its  decade  of  existence,  charting  an  “Age  of  Unrest,”  fol-
lowed by “The Great Decay Period,” an “Age of Resurgence,” the 
“Pre-Hype  Period,”  an  “Age  of  Hype,”  followed  by  the  current 
“Automation Period.” Users chart the constructions and usually 
destructions of various monuments in the game within a histor-
ical framework.62 The feature I wish to draw attention to is how 
they cover in-game events. Consider, for instance, the article on 
“Imperator’s Base.” The Wiki states that “Imperator’s Base, usu-
ally shortened to Imp’s Base and also known as Viking Base and 
the Ungriefable Base, is one of the largest bases in 2b2t, built by 
Imperator’s group in 2012. It was home to the most well-known 
build on 2b2t, the Jesus Statue, and was griefed by jared2013 in 
2015.”63 Other articles give biographies and histories of players 
that  refer  to  the  in-game  universe  as  though  it  were  a  total-
ity: “[o]n a supply run through the nether, Judge met up with 
Offtopia to recruit willyroof and marksman77, both friends of 
elecdrof, from Shitpit City. They returned to Old Town finding 
jdw and Elecdrof adding builds to Old Town. One of the new re-
cruits wanted to build outside of the base and Judge said fine.”64
Much  of  the  reporting  on  the  Warez  Scene  in  this  book  is 
similar; a huge alternative reality game that spins a social web 
within  which  people  can  almost  wholly  exist.  Most  of  the  ac-

inside-minecrafts-most-offensive-server.

62  “Timeline,” 2b2t Wiki, 2020, https://2b2t.miraheze.org/wiki/Timeline.
63  “Imperator’s Base,” 2b2t Wiki, 2020, https://2b2t.miraheze.org/wiki/Impe-

rator%27s_Base.

64  “THEJudgeHolden,” 2b2t Wiki, 2020, https://2b2t.miraheze.org/wiki/

THEJudgeHolden.

46

original pirate material

counts  given  in  NFO  documents  from  the  archives  that  I  here 
consult  talk  about  the  in-world  mechanics  of  the  Scene  as 
though “the Scene is all that is the case,” with apologies to Witt-
genstein. They relate histories of sites, FTPDs, individuals, nuke-
wars, and other esoteric phenomena in ways that will engender 
little external understanding or empathy. Studying documents 
from the Scene is like coming across a new world with a different 
history to the external one and trying to make sense of what it 
says. There are entire unexplained vocabularies, histories, jokes, 
codes of conduct, and principles. Reading accounts of the Scene 
is  like  exploring a language without referents. I will  never  see 
most of the artifacts and practices detailed in this book — only 
the leaked traces. It is a little like trying to understand the Battle 
of Hastings without knowing what “France” and “England” are 
(although proponents of the imagined communities theories of 
nationhood might argue that we do not have solid and shared 
conceptions of what these nations actually are).

What  does  this  mean  for  the  comprehensiveness  of  this 
book? It seems to me beyond doubt that Sceners who read this 
book will find elements with which they disagree, that are in-
correct, that have mislabelled a practice, and that mischaracter-
ize some of the ethos of their world. I will, certainly, be labeled 
a “lamer,” in Scene parlance.65 By contrast, I am also relatively 
confident  that  most  of  the  high-level  outline  that  I  here  piece 
together is correct. The surfaced archive is too extensive, with 
enough already written to give some confidence in much of the 
history. It is also the case that chroniclers can never resist writ-
ing about these subcultural spaces, even though it poses a se-
curity  risk.  Creating  an  alternative  reality  is  not  enough.  One 
must, it seems, cement it with magazines, documentation, and 
other persistent artifacts that perpetuate the game.

Studies such as this fall under the rubric of “netnographies,” 
or  works  that  attempt  to  examine  the  principles  and  charac-
teristics  of  various  online  cultures  ethnographically.  A  funda-
mental challenge of working in this space is ethics. Most of the 

65  See also a similar disclaimer in Rehn, “Electronic Potlatch,” 91.

 47

warez

documents and conversations in the DeFacto2 archive, in Scene 
magazines,  and  in  site  wktop  charts  (weekly  rankings  of  user 
upload volumes) were thought, by the conversation participants 
and authors, to have been held or published privately.

Indeed, the study of underground pirate cultures presents a 
set of ethical issues that have been best covered, in recent days, 
by Robert V. Kozinets. The first question is: does studying the 
Warez  Scene  constitute  the  study  of  human  subjects?  In  this 
book,  I  do  not  conduct  interviews  with  participants  nor  do  I 
intervene. The primary research model is textual and archival. 
I have read many documents from the Scene and used this to 
reconstruct its operating procedures. This methodology places 
the research in this book in the category of “archival research” 
that involves the downloading “of existing posts,” which “does 
not strictly qualify as human subjects research. It is only where 
interaction or intervention occurs that consent is required.”66

Because their doings are illegal, a separate but related ques-
tion  pertains  to  the  risk  of  harming  those  whose  activities  I 
document in this book. Kozinets notes that “studying illicit […] 
communities” constitutes studying a vulnerable group, a group 
who are vulnerable to law enforcement action.67 This appraisal 
of harm applies to interventions and interactions, of which there 
are none here. Under their pseudonyms in these documents, the 
individuals about whom I am writing have bragged openly  of 
their illegal activities. As well, law enforcement agencies already 
have access to the records that I study in this volume.

A further question surrounds the ethics of harm. When the 
harm that may result from research that reveals illegal practices 
is the bringing to justice of criminals, is this a harm that should 
stop research? There may be borderline cases. The example that 
Kozinets  gives  is  drug  users,  who  should  undoubtedly  not  be 
exposed to prosecution through research interviews if we wish 
to study the phenomena of drug addiction. Exposing drug us-

66  Robert V. Kozinets, Netnography: Ethnographic Research in the Age of the 

Internet (Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications, 2010), 151.

67  Ibid., 153.

48

original pirate material

ers would lead, in the end, to a situation where no user of illicit 
drugs would ever speak to a researcher. Though does the same 
apply  in  cases  where  freely  available,  online  material  reveals 
criminal activities? Taken to the extreme, if my reading of these 
open, online documents revealed a murder, should I not pub-
lish the research because it might bring a murderer to justice? 
(Probably I should go to the police first.) Such reasoning gener-
ates only further questions about the severity of the crime and 
the need to protect sources from the harm of being prosecuted. 
Is it, and should it be, a matter for the individual researcher to 
decide who should be prosecuted and who should be protected?
In this light, I needed a policy about using pseudonyms and 
real names and whether the material should be attributed. In-
deed, the politics of citation and online pseudonymity is a tricky 
subject.  As  Amy  Bruckman  notes,  “[n]orms  for  presentation 
vary  for  different  sites.”68  In  the  Warez  Scene,  participants  go 
by IRC usernames and site nicknames, which do not necessarily 
correspond  to  one  another.  That  is,  it  is  possible  to  use  a  dif-
ferent alias on topsites than on IRC. The two are linked only by 
a site invite script. Participants who have been arrested, tried, 
and convicted are “decloaked” in official legal documents, which 
are  publications  of  record  (e.g.,  the  site  operator  of  “The  Ratz 
Hole”).  While  in  other  online  cultures  participants  “may  also 
routinely  disclose  information  linking  their  pseudonym  and 
real name,” this is not commonly the case in the Warez Scene 
where  such  disclosures  would  carry  genuine  risks  of  law  en-
forcement penalties.69

The secondary literature’s advice on handling pseudonyms is 
challenging to navigate. In works such as Kozinet’s, it is said that 
“online pseudonyms function exactly like real names and should 
be treated as real names.”70 Yet, in the case of the DeFacto2 ar-
chive, the pseudonyms are up to two decades old, and many or 

68  Amy Bruckman, “Teaching Students to Study Online Communities Ethi-

cally,” Journal of Information Ethics 15, no. 2 (2006): 89.

69  Kozinets, Netnography, 145.
70  Ibid., 144.

 49

warez

most are no longer in use. In fact, some may now be used by dif-
ferent, entirely innocent individuals. Further, were this book to 
treat Warez pseudonyms as real names that contain confidential 
data, it would also be impossible to cite material directly from 
the archive. This is due to “the fact that a direct quote can be 
accessed through a full-text search in a public search engine.”71 
Hence, the dilemma for this volume is: should I present pseu-
donyms and quotations that are in the public sphere online ver-
batim? There is minimal risk of linking these pseudonyms to a 
real-world identity, unless the user has already been convicted 
in a court of law.

Finally,  this  citation  situation  is  complicated  even  further 
by the fact that many of the documents that I cite are so-called 
Warez “magazines.” With titles such as the NetMonkey Weekly 
Report,  The  Marshall  Mussolini  Show,  and  many  others,  these 
documents contain articles written by Scene members and are 
signed as such. In other words, these are magazine sources like 
any other, even though the authors are people who have likely 
conspired  to  violate  copyright  law.  These  are  instances  where 
“culture members or culture leaders would like credit for their 
work.”72  The  authors  of  these  magazine  documents  put  their 
names  at  the  end  and  wished  to  be  viewed  as  the  authors  of 
these  sentiments,  though  they  perhaps  did  not  realize  where 
the documents would appear on the open web. In any case, we 
can draw a parallel with the writings of the Mexican insurgent, 
Subcomandante  Marcos.  A  prolific  writer  of  anti-neoliberalist 
literature and military leader of the Zapatista Army of National 
Liberation, Marcos is still cited using his pseudonym; because 
he wanted the credit.

As  this  book  argues,  the  Warez  Scene  is,  at  its  core,  about 
seeking credit. Groups vie for status and reputation in their re-
leases. Other groups jostle to recruit defecting reputed rippers 
and crackers. Couriers want to be the best, to make it to the top 
of the weekly upload charts, and to be known to outpace all of 

71  Ibid., 145.
72  Ibid.

50

original pirate material

their rivals. The Scene is made and broken on individual reputa-
tion and notoriety. At the same time, this fame  is  deliberately 
limited.  It  is  an  internal  system  of  prestige,  and  many  Warez 
documents decry the spreading of information about the Scene 
beyond the inner sanctum.

I have had, then, to take a stance on whether to reveal or not 
pseudonyms and sometimes real names. I am guided in this de-
cision by one of Kozinets’s core principles: “should we not con-
sider some message posters, gatekeepers, and community mem-
bers to be ‘public figures,’ and accord them less power to control 
information about themselves (and more direct credit for their 
work) than so-called ‘private people’ who are not seeking power, 
influence, or attention in the same way?”73 I cite the authors of 
Warez magazines using the pseudonyms that they have signed 
on their work. I take them to have indicated a desire for credit 
for their writing by signing their work. In this way, I see Warez 
magazines as no different from any other form of electronic pub-
lication channel in that it is a medium that requires attribution. 
Group names, which are public signoffs, I likewise use without 
redaction. In other cases, when analyzing courier charts and site 
wkup/wktop  figures  leaked  outside  of  their  original  intended 
venues, I nonetheless retain pseudonyms as these figures wished 
to receive credit within their culture for their efforts. Similarly, 
in the instances where site NFO files list the names of siteops, I 
retain these, as these were advertorial documents. These all ap-
pear to be requests for credit. I note that it is also possible, with 
some ease, to view these original documents, thanks to archives 
such as DeFacto2; redaction would also have been inefficacious. 
I also name those convicted or charged in a court of law as their 
names are matters of public record.

These principles allow me to take a relatively neutral stance. 
They  are  unlikely  to  give  any  additional  assistance  to  law  en-
forcement officers, who already possess these documents. At the 
same time,  they facilitate the validation  of the truth  claims  in 
this subcultural ethnography. For, as Anthony Grafton has put 

73  Ibid.

 51

warez

it, “the culturally contingent and eminently fallible footnote of-
fers the only guarantee we have that statements about the past 
derive from identifiable sources. And that is the only ground we 
have to trust them.”74

In  an  earlier  draft  of  this  book,  I  had  intended  to  provide 
a pack of the NFO files and other documents on which I draw. 
The purpose of distributing these files in a companion archive 
would have been to make it easy to ascertain the sources from 
which I have derived information. My footnotes to Scene docu-
ments, for instance, contain filenames that would allow lookup 
in such an archive. As in the Appendix, they would provide a 
list of extant sites at one point in the Scene’s history. They could 
show the competitive history of courier racing through wktop 
charts.  They  might  demonstrate  the  rules  and  meta-rules  of 
various sub-Scenes and the overarching Nuke Council. They are 
the artifacts that prove the existence of the sub-surface, alterna-
tive reality of the Warez Scene.

However, I have opted not to distribute this archive with the 
work  in  light  of  the  above  discussion  of  ethics  and  redaction. 
The work is slightly impoverished because the archive on which 
it draws will inevitably decay and fall out of sight. The verifica-
tion of my claims will become much more demanding over time 
as this archive fades. However, this is the ethical choice for this 
study, that is, to maintain the only-ever partial anonymity of at-
tributional pseudonymity in the Scene.

structure

By way of orientation, I will close this introduction with some 
notes on the structure of this book. This introductory first chap-
ter  has  opened  by  setting  the  stage  and  the  arguments  of  this 
book. It has given high-level background and has described the 
archives that document the Warez Scene and the ethics of using 
them for academic research.

74  Anthony Grafton, The Footnote: A Curious History (Cambridge: Harvard 

University Press, 1999), 233.

52

original pirate material

The rest of this book features five other chapters. The second 
chapter covers theoretical conceptions of piracy and details the 
forms of piracy that are not the Scene. It also considers the crafts 
and skills of the pirates who make up this Scene. Chapter Three 
then introduces the technical infrastructures of the Scene. This 
chapter opens with a methodological analysis via Susan Leigh 
Star’s well-known article, “The Ethnography of Infrastructure,” 
which outlines the “tricks of the trade” used in this book. Among 
these tricks of the trade are examinations of the Scene’s “embed-
dedness,” for instance: how it is sunk inside university structures 
for high-speed server links; that the membership of the Scene 
takes for granted its infrastructural provisions but that these ap-
pear opaque and unclear to outsiders; that the embodiment of 
standards  are  shown  in  Scene  rules  and  other  types  of  proce-
dural rule documents; that the Scene becomes visible on break-
down, especially when law enforcement operations are put into 
place; and that there are vast quantities of hidden labor used to 
support the infrastructure of the Warez Scene. This chapter then 
moves  to  examine  the  architectures  of  topsites — the  high-ca-
pacity, high-bandwidth FTP servers that underlie the Scene — in 
both  hardware  and  software  terms.  Finally,  this  chapter  turns 
to the communication channels, bots, IRC networks, and other 
quasi-social spaces surrounding the Scene.

The fourth chapter of this book looks at structures of orga-
nization  and  rule-following.  An  essential  characteristic  of  the 
Scene is that it is a highly regulated space, governed by interact-
ing systems of rules that sit in perpetual tension with its distrib-
uted  and  anarchic  decentralization.  It  is  this  rule  system  that 
allows me to frame the Scene as an alternative reality game. This 
chapter opens by examining the principles and histories of the 
term “organized crime,” which oscillates between the designa-
tion of activities as criminal, as opposed to the branding of in-
dividuals and gangs as organized criminals. From here, the rest 
of  this  chapter  examines  how  the  Scene’s  guiding  documents 
resemble  quasi-judicial  frameworks.  For  instance,  through  an 
extensive analysis of the FLAC Scene Rules v3, and the dissenting 

 53

warez

counter-document, I show how these rulesets mirror legal con-
tracts, with recitals, binding natures, and free entry.

At  the  same  time,  however,  Chapter  Four  also  examines 
quality control systems on the ground. In particular, by analyz-
ing dupechecking I aim to show one of the core contradictions 
of the Scene — that a culture dedicated to stealing other people’s 
work would have a strict set of rules and principles that deter-
mine  the  right  of  groups  to  release  their  pirate  material.  This 
chapter  ends  by  studying  the  systems  of  nuking  in  the  Scene, 
that  is,  the  processes  by  which  releases  are  marked  invalid  or 
bad. By looking at the Nuke Council’s guiding documents, I un-
earth  the  tensions  between  local  implementations  of  rules  on 
topsites themselves, which remain autonomous entities, against 
Scene-wide  decisions  on  the  permissibility,  or  otherwise,  of  a 
release.

Chapter  Five  turns  to  the  aesthetics  of  the  Warez  Scene.  A 
fundamental argument of this book is that we should consider 
the alternative reality game of the Scene as an aesthetic subcul-
ture. That is to say that the stylings of “cool” that attract mem-
bers  who  can  build  a  reputation  in  this  space  are  crucial  but, 
too, that much of the Scene has an aesthetic character in which 
artforms play a role. This chapter examines two related comput-
er-art phenomena that converge in the Warez Scene, the Demo-
Scene and ASCII Art communities. Tracing back the origins of 
the Scene to the early computer-art DemoScene, and the com-
mensurate levels of skill involved in creating cracks and demos, 
this section is among the most important for those who wish to 
understand the motivations of Warez Sceners. This chapter also 
examines  how  the  Scene’s  cracking  practices  have  influenced 
mainstream cultural production, noting the feedback loops of 
innovative Digital Rights Management (DRM) mechanisms that, 
for example, alter gameplay within cracked videogames.

The sixth and final chapter examines the Scene’s interactions 
with law enforcement over a two-decade period. Covering the 
early busts of Operation Cyber Strike in 1997 right through to 
the  2020  SPARKS  raid,  this  chapter  details  the  different  opera-
tional strategies that law enforcement has used to clamp down 

54

original pirate material

on the Scene. Th  e chapter closes with an appraisal of the success 
of law enforcement agencies and notes the whack-a-mole style 
of operations in which takedowns appear only shortlived before 
the many-headed hydra resumes its operations.

                      #   # 
                       # # 
                     #######
                       # # 
                      #   # 

Th  is  book  asks  the  fundamental  question:  what  is  the  Warez 
Scene? Th  e answer is complicated and multi-faceted, but I have 
arrived  at  a  diff erent  defi nition  from  other  scholars.  From  all 
my work on this book, I conclude that the Warez Scene is an il-
legal, online, alternative reality game with aesthetic subcultural 
stylings that operates on a quasi-economic basis. It is an anar-
chically governed free-for-all that has nonetheless developed its 
own codes of behavior, ethics, activities, and, most importantly, 
hierarchies of prestige.75

Why should we ask this question? Aside from the intrinsic 
interest in studying a fascinating subcultural space, there are ar-
guments that a failure to understand these cultures results in a 
legal inability to regulate them. In his study of historical pirate 
networks, Adrian Johns posits, there is a clear moral of the story, 
that publishers and legal mechanisms in the past have only suc-
ceeded by understanding that which they faced. “Th  e best way,” 
writes Johns, “to counter piracy is to appreciate the culture of 
the pirates themselves — and to understand it better than they 
do.”76 We should also ask these questions to answer Alexander 
Sebastian Dent’s “plea for more anthropology of piracy.”77 It is 
clear that Dent is right to note that “the precise nature and con-

75  For more on Scene ethics, see Alf Rehn, Ordered Misbehavior: The Struc-
turing of an Illegal Endeavor (Stockholm: Royal Institute of Technology, 
2003).

76  Adrian Johns, “Pop Music Pirate Hunters,” Daedalus 131, no. 2 (2002): 77.
77  Dent, “Introduction.” 

 55

warez

sequences of the upcoming implosion of draconian anti-piracy 
measures will be best understood through localized treatments 
that  the  ethnographically  aware  are  in  the  best  position  to 
provide.”78 Before we can delve into the localized instantiations 
of pirate cultures and their demonizations, we must understand 
the  operations  of  the  global  distribution  network,  the  Scene, 
that undergirds these.

A  penultimate  note  on  typography  and  sourcing  is  worth 
propounding  here. Throughout  this  book  I  cite  works  created 
by an underground subculture with its own standards of writing 
and speech. It is fair to say that correct English is not high on the 
agenda of these writers. Throughout this book I have opted to 
retain the original spelling and grammar of the sources, rather 
than to correct this or to add pedantic “sic” markings after every 
technically  incorrect  usage.  From  this,  readers  will  also  glean 
a sense of the communication style of the Scene and come to 
greater familiarity with its discourses and language registers.

What, then, of the financial “scene” with which I opened? I 
contend that finance and stock-trading are the best analogies to 
how  the  Warez  Scene  operates.  A  highly  technical  infrastruc-
ture that thrives on speed and reputation, with material reward 
possible, but by no means guaranteed, or even valued beyond 
reputation, it is the cut-throat, competitive nature that defines 
the Warez Scene. Yet, in contradictory fashion, the Scene is also 
a space of sociality and friendship, amid this competition. The 
Scene is an alternative reality game, and its players are addicted. 
Until we recognize that members of the Scene are not, at heart, 
really interested in pirate media but in the process of the com-
petition itself, it is unlikely that law enforcement will be able to 
control this anarchic darknet.

78  Ibid, 669.

56

Setting the Scene

pirate philosophy and imagery

What  is  digital  piracy?  Is  it  freedom  fi ghters  campaigning  for 
the open liberation of digital material? Or is it simply the high-
seas  equivalent  of  buccaneers,  extorting  victims  economically 
while hiding, coward-like, behind their screens? Of course, the 
very term “piracy” implies that there is a cut-throat nature to the 
act in its metaphor. It also implies that there must be personal 
gain at the illicit expense of another. However, piracy’s terminol-
ogy  places  this  activity  within  various  imaginaries  and  optics 
that condition how we understand its motivational frames.1

Th  e  domineering  propaganda  campaigns  of  the  Motion 
Picture  Association  of  America  are,  by  now,  familiar  to  most 
home-video  audiences  in  the  twenty-fi rst  century.  Th  e  adver-
tisement begins, “you wouldn’t steal a car.” Th  e comparison they 
make is that one should not download pirated material because 
such an action would be analogous to theft . Ironically, given its 
deceptively simple logic, it is on such framing  that  one of the 
core philosophical debates around piracy rests: is digital piracy 

1  For more, see James Meese, “Th  e Pirate Imaginary and the Potential of 
the Authorial Pirate,” in Piracy: Leakages from Modernity, eds. Martin 
Fredriksson and James Arvanitakis (Sacramento: Litwin Books, 2014), 
19–38.

 57

warez

a  form  of  theft?  Can  intellectual  property  be  stolen?  Further, 
it turns out that these questions have answers that are not ad-
dressable in simple terms of property relations but that sit with-
in debates about labor in the digital world.

The terms of piracy and theft require upfront debate because 
there are significant differences. Theft is the act of deceptively 
appropriating  someone  else’s  property  and  thereby  depriving 
the legitimate owner of access to it. UK law, for example, is ex-
plicit  in  stating  that  to  steal  something  means  that  the  origi-
nal owner must lose access: “[a] person is guilty of theft if he 
dishonestly  appropriates  property  belonging  to  another  with 
the intention of permanently depriving the other of it.”2 US law 
varies by state, but all larceny-theft provisions contain at least 
two  components:  1.)  dishonest  appropriation  of  property;  2.) 
with the intent to deprive the original owner of it.3 Digital pi-
racy does not deprive the original owner of the item in ques-
tion because the act of copying has no impact on the original 
artifact. While a campaign by the Federation Against Software 
Theft (FAST) in the UK used the slogan “piracy is theft,” the legal 
reality is very different.4

In the digital world, what we are discussing when we speak 
of piracy as theft is the unauthorized reproduction of an infi-
nitely  re-copyable  artifact — not  a  “theft”  in  the  traditionally 
understood  sense.  The  transmission  of  a  digital  artifact  from 
one party to another does not, in most cases, result in a loss of 
access for the original owner; although the recent craze for non-
fungible tokens (NFTs) is an attempt to introduce such rivalry 

2  United Kingdom, “Theft Act 1968,” http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uk-

3 

pga/1968/60/crossheading/definition-of-theft.
I have previously covered this topic in a similar fashion in Martin Paul 
Eve, Password (New York: Bloomsbury Academic, 2016), 84–85.

4  For more on this, see Matthew Yglesias, “Piracy Is a Form of Theft, and 
Copyright Infringement Is Neither,” Slate Magazine, December 15, 2011, 
https://slate.com/business/2011/12/piracy-is-a-form-of-theft-and-copy-
right-infringement-is-neither.html, and Michał Krawczyk et al., “‘Piracy 
Is Not Theft!’ Is It Just Students Who Think So?” Journal of Behavior and 
Experimental Economics 54 (2015): 32–39.

58

setting the scene

in the digital world. However, this ability to copy without dep-
rivation  is  why  various  thinkers  have  branded  digital  artifacts 
as “non-rivalrous.” There is no rivalry for their ownership, and 
it is possible to share these objects without losing the original.5 
What  is  instead  eroded  in  the  realm  of  piracy  is  the  coercive, 
scarcity relationship between ownership and purchase inherent 
in physical objects. In short, the supposition is that if an identi-
cal copy of an artifact is available for free, the underlying labor 
that  created  the  first  copy  will  go  unremunerated.  People  will 
not pay for something they can get for free.

Digital  rights  management  technologies,  intellectual  prop-
erty laws, blockchain ledgers, and the comeback of physical me-
dia  (e.g.,  vinyl  records)  are  all  attempts  to  reintroduce  rivalry 
and  scarcity  into  the  world  of  digital  objects  and  to  stem  the 
tide of piracy.6 While the former three approaches use software 
systems, including cryptographic proof of work/space/stake, to 
reinscribe scarcity into the digital realm, the latter links a digital 
purchase to real-world ownership — albeit at significant ecolog-
ical cost in the case of vinyl and blockchain — and conspicuous 
consumption.7

There  is  an  irony  in  these  attempts  to  halt  piracy.  In  one 
sense, the entire purpose of anti-piracy initiatives is to ensure 
that the creators of digital artifacts are remunerated for their la-
bor, thus ensuring, under capital, the continued production of 
such objects. There is often a focus in such initiatives on the im-

5  See, for instance: Peter Suber, Open Access (Cambridge: MIT Press, 2012). 

On the tricky terminology of digital objects, see Yuk Hui, On the Existence 
of Digital Objects (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 2016).
6  Marc Hogan, “Is Vinyl’s Comeback Here to Stay?” Pitchfork, January 22, 
2018, https://pitchfork.com/features/article/is-vinyls-comeback-here-
to-stay/. Richard Stallman famously argues against the use of the term 
“intellectual property” in Richard M. Stallman, “Did You Say ‘Intellectual 
Property’? It’s a Seductive Mirage,” gnu.org, April 20, 2015, https://www.
gnu.org/philosophy/not-ipr.en.html.

7  Kyle Devine, “Nightmares on Wax: The Environmental Impact of the Vinyl 
Revival,” The Guardian, January 28, 2020, http://www.theguardian.com/
music/2020/jan/28/vinyl-record-revival-environmental-impact-music-
industry-streaming.

 59

warez

age of the “starving” musician or artist. This figure is swindled 
of a livelihood by the copying power of the digital realm, even as 
it is more likely to be the intermediary large corporate record la-
bels that stand to lose the most. In another sense, though, these 
attempts  to  halt  piracy  deflect  attention  away  from  this  labor 
through what Marx called commodity fetishism.8 Commodity 
fetishism is the principle that people believe that, when they buy 
something, they are paying for the object rather than paying for 
the labor that created the object. By emphasizing the relation-
ship in a commercial transaction as purchasing an object rather 
than underwriting the labor that produced the object, anti-pi-
racy initiatives devalue labor. “You wouldn’t steal a car” is the 
framing rather than “you wouldn’t steal the work time that pro-
duced a car.” In their imagery of the starving artist, such efforts 
at once glorify labor and its remuneration but do so by erasing 
labor from any visibility within an economic transaction.

Piracy  is  also  potentially  a  highly  offensive  term  for  unau-
thorized,  digital  reproduction.  Why?  The  ICC  International 
Maritime Bureau reported in its annual piracy report for 2004 
that seaborne pirates murdered thirty crew members that year.9 
Every  year,  real  sailors  are  kidnapped,  threatened,  and  mur-
dered by real, seafaring pirates. However, the typical imagery of 
the pirate has been subject to a romanticization that downplays 
violence  and  habilitates  piracy.  The  Disney-fied  images  of  pi-
rates that have become routinized viewing for infants the world 
over, for instance, do not usually include AK47s and other con-
temporary weapons systems. Captain Hook may be the baddie, 
but the maiming and murder of his victims remain offscreen. 
As  C.R.  Pennell  puts  it,  “[t]here  was,”  and  still  is,  “in  reality, 
nothing attractive about pirate violence, except for sadists and 

8  Karl Marx, Capital: A Critique of Political Economy, trans. Ben Fowkes 

(London: Penguin Books, 1992), 1:1–146.

9  “Annual Death Toll from Piracy Rises,” ICC Commercial Crime Services, 
2004, https://www.icc-ccs.org/index.php/405-annual-death-toll-from-
piracy-rises.

60

setting the scene

voyeurs, and those who held pirates to be heroes skated quickly 
over this thin ice.”10

The widespread romanticization of piracy is, at least in part, 
linked  to  an  idea  of  resistance  to  capitalism.  More  often  than 
not,  commentators  tie  this  view  to  the  idea  of  the  commons. 
As  Peter  Linebaugh  and  Marcus  Rediker  highlight,  the  his-
tory  of  maritime  piracy  intertwines  with  various  understand-
ings and practices of the commons and “commoning.”11 But the 
idea  of  the  commons  has  also  played  a  vital  role  in  the  study 
of digital technologies. It even shares an etymological root with 
“communication.”12 Indeed, perhaps the most distinct feature of 
the digital landscape is the possibility of sharing all digital ar-
tifacts  in  common;  the  cost-per-perfect  copy  is  nearly  zero.  It 
seems it should be possible to share all digital files in common. 
In such a light, digital piracy appears to resist capitalistic flows, 
a type of digital communism.

Given this well-known romanticization, it is surprising that 
Virginia Crisp writes that “[w]ithin popular and much academ-
ic discourse it is hard to escape the understanding that pirates 
are  nothing  more  than  deviant  thieves.”13  Certainly,  this  is  the 
discourse that operates within industry-sponsored, anti-piracy, 
advertisement  campaigns.  However,  as  Crisp  goes  on  to  note, 
“another construction of the ‘pirate’ is as a ‘subversive radical’ 
engaged in a power struggle with the cultural industries.”14 In-

10  C.R. Pennell, “Introduction,” in Bandits at Sea: A Pirates Reader, ed. C.R. 

Pennell (New York: New York University Press, 2001), 5.

11  See, for instance, Peter Linebaugh and Marcus Rediker, The Many-Headed 
Hydra: Sailors, Slaves, Commoners, and the Hidden History of the Revolu-
tionary Atlantic (Boston: Beacon Press, 2003), 140.

12  Raymond Williams, Keywords: A Vocabulary of Culture and Society (Ox-

ford: Oxford University Press, 2014), 36–37.

13  Virginia Crisp, “To Name a Thief: Constructing the Deviant Pirate,” in 

Piracy, eds. Fredriksson and Arvanitakis, 39. A good counter-point to this 
can also be found in Janice Denegri-Knott, “Sinking the Online ‘Music 
Pirates’: Foucault, Power and Deviance on the Web,” Journal of Computer-
Mediated Communication 9, no. 4 (2004), https://academic.oup.com/jcmc/
article/9/4/JCMC949/4614489, which uses Foucauldian principles to take 
apart notions of deviant power.

14  Crisp, “To Name a Thief,” 43.

 61

warez

deed, the worldwide emergence of political “Pirate Parties” and 
various  ambivalent  pirate  philosophies  is  evidence  of  the  do-
cility of pirate imagery.15 We can feel at home with the idea of 
pirates as friendly renegades, fighting against the global corpo-
rate hegemony, liberating material from those who had wrongly 
seized it from the hands of the people. We link piracy as resist-
ance  in  such  contexts  to  ideas  of  helping  people  in  common, 
an almost-communism, a lineage perhaps best explored in Eric 
Hobsbawm’s  relatively  well-known  analysis  of  social  banditry 
and noble robbers.16 This is a far cry from murder on the high 
seas.

This metaphor of the commons, though, has featured heavily 
in  digital  spaces.  On  a  superficial  level,  it  seems  to  be  a  help-
ful analogy for what is happening in the digital world when re-
sources are shared, and copies are co-owned. However, figures 
such  as  Sam  Moore  and  Stuart  Lawson  have  recently  pointed 
out that the commons is a somewhat vague and imprecise anal-
ogy  that  buries  historical  detail  in  favor  of  an  idealized,  and 
generalized, notion of the commons.17 The commons, in other 
words, becomes a floating signifier onto which every participant 
projects their own take.

At its heart, much of the digital landscape looks more like the 
thirteenth-century period of enclosure in England when there 
was mass consolidation of previously common land into larger 
farms.  As  Nick  Dyer-Witheford  notes,  enclosure  was  a  multi-
sided mass societal upheaval, one that required

15  Mariacristina Sciannamblo, “The Internet between Politics and the 

Political: The Birth of the Pirate Party,” in Piracy, eds. Fredriksson and Ar-
vanitakis, 177–94; United States Pirate Party, No Safe Harbor: Essays about 
Pirate Politics (n.p.: CreateSpace, 2012); Gary Hall, Pirate Philosophy: For a 
Digital Posthumanities (Cambridge: MIT Press, 2016); Virginia Crisp, “The 
Piratical Is Political,” Soundings 55 (2013): 71–80.

16  Eric Hobsbawm, Bandits (New York: Pantheon Books, 1981).
17  Samuel Moore, “Common Struggles: Policy-Based vs. Scholar-Led Ap-
proaches to Open Access in the Humanities” (PhD diss., King’s College 
London, 2019); Stuart Lawson, “Open Access Policy in the UK: From Neo-
liberalism to the Commons” (PhD diss., Birkbeck, University of London, 
2019).

62

setting the scene

a new regime of social discipline, surveillance, and criminal-
ization  including  the  witch-hunting  of  commons  dwellings 
and using women, poor laws, antivagrancy legislation, work-
houses,  and  the  first  steps  in  the  formation  of  an  internal 
state apparatus of thief-taking and policing to monitor, con-
fine,  and  punish  the  potentially  unruly  population  evicted 
from the land.18

Certainly,  the  produce  of  these  newly  enclosed  spaces  can  re-
main available to consume without paying. However, the prac-
tices  of  commoning,  in  which  common-pool  resources  are 
shared,  worked  over  together,  and  communally  governed,  are 
rarely present in these new digitally enclosed cultures that large 
multinational corporations often own. Again, piracy can present 
itself as though it is a resistance to such practices of enclosure.

However, the history of the internet is much more complex 
than a simplistic, historical analogy to England’s enclosure can 
show. For instance, it is naïve to believe that the origins of the 
internet  lie  in  common  spaces  where  users  disseminated  eve-
rything  for  free  for  the  good  of  everyone,  as  if  it  were  some 
form of utopian commons that was later enclosed. Instead, it is 
worth remembering that the US military’s Advanced Research 
Projects  Agency  originally  developed  the  internet,  known  as 
ARPANet. As Janet Abbate writes, “[i]n the years since the In-
ternet was transferred to civilian control, its military roots have 
been  downplayed  […  but]  [t]he  Internet  was  not  built  in  re-
sponse to popular demand […]. Rather, the project reflected the 
command  economy  of  military  procurement.”19  The  academic 

18  See Nick Dyer-Witheford, “E-Capital and the Many Headed Hydra,” in 

Critical Perspectives on the Internet, ed. Greg Elmer (Lanham: Rowman & 
Littlefield Publishers, 2002), 129–31; Silvia Beatriz Federici, Caliban and 
the Witch: Women, the Body, and Primitive Accumulation (New York: Au-
tonomedia, 1997); Fiona Jeffries, “Reading ‘Caliban and the Witch’ Politi-
cally,” Gender, Place & Culture 25, no. 9 (2018): 1322–28; Jane Humphries, 
“Enclosures, Common Rights, and Women: The Proletarianization of 
Families in the Late Eighteenth and Early Nineteenth Centuries,” The 
Journal of Economic History 50, no. 1 (1990): 17–42.

19  Janet Abbate, Inventing the Internet (Cambridge: MIT Press, 2000), 144–45.

 63

warez

side of the early internet was secondary to its military history. 
As  Leonard  Kleinrock,  an  early  internet  engineer  specified,  
“[e]very time I wrote a proposal I had to show the relevance to 
the military’s applications.”20 Hence, there is no precise move-
ment  from  open,  digital  commons  to  enclosed,  network  plat-
forms, with piracy as an intervening resistance movement.

That said, there are histories of enclosure in the digital world 
at a very material level, to which Dyer-Witheford directs us. For 
instance, the 1993 introduction of domain name sales was a clear 
incursion  of  commerce  into  the  inter-networked  world  rather 
than the first-come, first-served system that had preceded this. 
The analogies to physical space and sale here were prominent, 
including the idea that those who sit on domains with no inten-
tion  of  using  them  are  so-called  “cyber-squatters.”  Also,  from 
1991 to 1995 the architecture of the internet backbone was trans-
ferred from the National Science Foundation, a US government 
agency,  to  a  group  of  telecommunications  companies.  The  US 
government  billed  this  as  a  democratic  move,  purportedly  to 
ensure that they did not have permanent and final governance 
of a vital, trans-national infrastructure. However, it was also an 
enclosure  of  sorts  where  previously  public-owned  technology 
was transferred into private ownership.21

It  is  against  this  mode  of  enclosure  that  some  narratives 
romantically  situate  “hackers,  pirates,  free-software  creators, 
universal  and  open  access  movements,  cyberactivists,  and 
hacktivists.”22  As  is  clear  from  the  diverse  figures  in  this  list, 
there are many spaces where one can see resistance to capital in 
the digital arena. This resistance has also spanned many differ-
ent media types over history. As has been bolstered by the recent 
historical work of John Willinsky and Adrian Johns, piracy, as 
a form of resistance to commercial practices, is not unique to 

20  Ibid., 77. This is a genealogy I have previously explored in Martin Paul Eve, 
Pynchon and Philosophy: Wittgenstein, Foucault and Adorno (London: 
Palgrave Macmillan, 2014), 155.

21  Dyer-Witheford, “E-Capital and the Many Headed Hydra,” 132.
22  Ibid., 135.

64

setting the scene

digital media.23 However, digital piracy is far more widespread 
now  than  the  unauthorized  duplication  of  books  in  the  early 
years of print. If digital piracy is a form of resistance, then it is 
omnipresent. The (admittedly, extremely partisan) Software & 
Information  Industry  Association  and  Business  Software  Alli-
ance at one point estimated that 38 percent of software world-
wide was pirated.24

The responses to these enclosures have been categorized dif-
ferently,  depending  on  the  perspective  of  the  classifier.  As  Sa-
rah Coleman and Dyer-Witheford point out, “[d]istinguishing 
between  political  and  criminal  responses  to  enclosure  is  not 
always easy.”25 On the one hand, it is difficult to conceptualize 
digital piracy as a radical, economic proposition when its analo-
gous material metaphor is essentially one that involves murder 
for personal gain. On the other hand, decrying digital pirates as 
equivalent to seafaring killers is likewise obviously problematic 
and renders piracy’s definition nebulous. For example, “pirate” 
covers  a  broad  swathe  of  copyright  infringement  activities,  to 
which the next section of this chapter will turn. However, it also 
extends to a swath of ongoing illicit, naval activity. As Dawdy 
and Bonni put it: “[a]lthough many definitions of piracy have 
been  offered,  no  authors  we  came  across  were  willing  to  ven-
ture an explanatory model that would link diverse types of so-
called piracy.”26 Pirates have, at various times, been “predators, 
parasites,  criminals,  outlaws,  rebels,  heroes,  heroines,  evildo-
ers, buffoons, opportunists, armed robbers, raiders, plunderers, 

23  Adrian Johns, Piracy: The Intellectual Property Wars from Gutenberg to 
Gates (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2011); John Willinsky, The 
Intellectual Properties of Learning: A Prehistory from Saint Jerome to John 
Locke (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2017).

24  Dyer-Witheford, “E-Capital and the Many Headed Hydra,” 139.
25  Sarah Coleman and Nick Dyer-Witheford, “Playing on the Digital Com-
mons: Collectivities, Capital and Contestation in Videogame Culture,” 
Media, Culture & Society 29, no. 6 (2007): 937.

26  Shannon Lee Dawdy and Joe Bonni, “Towards a General Theory of Piracy,” 

Anthropological Quarterly 85, no. 3 (Summer 2012): 674.

 65

warez

bandits, brigands, liberators, rogues, robin hoods, rapscallions, 
and bloodthirsty killers.”27

Truly,  piracy  is  diffusely  defined.  Piracy  is  “a  substitute  for 
declared  war,”  a  form  of  “violent  maritime  predation  in  that 
it  is  not  part  of  a  declared  or  widely  recognized  war.”28  It  has 
also been seen in economic terms as the taking of “tributes,” as 
“unrequited, systematic exactions effected by force or threat of 
force,” and as the activity of “commerce raiders.”29 Importantly, 
though, it is a mode of illicit violence in which — at least in the 
Graeco-Roman era — the idea of a “base” was key. As Philip de 
Souza notes, the maritime nature of piracy and the hefty equip-
ment toll that this brought meant that pirates required an an-
chor point, a lair, or a hideout. As de Souza puts it, “[s]hips also 
need harbours or anchorages, so that the pirates’ bases become 
an important factor in their success, and the suppression of pi-
racy requires the control of such bases.”30

These definitions all go some way towards understanding the 
concept of piracy. However, Dawdy and Bonni point to perhaps 
the most salient feature of piracy as it applies in the digital and 
seafaring worlds when they propose a definition of “a form of 
morally  ambiguous  property  seizure  committed  by  an  organ-
ized group.”31 While I have already covered how the notion of 
“property seizure” does not hold water for digital piracy, Dawdy 
and Bonni’s definition contains an even more critical element: a 

27  Ibid., 674; Pennell, “Introduction”; Lawrence E. Babits, Joshua B. Howard, 
and Matthew Brenckle, “Pirate Imagery,” in X Marks the Spot: The Archae-
ology of Piracy, eds. Russell K. Skowronek and Charles R. Ewen (Gaines-
ville: University Press of Florida, 2006), 271–81; Russell K. Skowronek, “X 
Marks the Spot — Or Does It?,” in X Marks the Spot, eds. Skowronek and 
Ewen, 282–98.

28  Fernand Braudel, The Mediterranean and The Mediterranean World in 
the Age of Philip II, trans. Siân Reynolds (New York: Harper and Row, 
1972), 2:865; John L. Anderson, “Piracy and World History: An Economic 
Perspective on Maritime Predation,” in Bandits at Sea, ed. Pennell, 82.
29  Anderson, “Piracy and World History,” 84, 92; David J. Starkey, “Pirates 

and Markets,” in Bandits at Sea, ed. Pennell, 110.

30  Philip de Souza, Piracy in the Graeco-Roman World (Cambridge: Cam-

bridge University Press, 1999), 11.

31  Dawdy and Bonni, “Towards a General Theory of Piracy,” 675.

66

setting the scene

pirate needs a crew. For, as they note, “[o]ne thing that many of 
the [extant] definitions lack is an emphasis on the social qual-
ity of piracy […]. No pirate works alone. This is an important 
fact that has not been sufficiently appreciated in the literature on 
piracy due to a leap to legally classify piracy with individually-
motivated criminality.”32

It  is  impossible  to  underemphasize  the  importance  of  a 
group, or as we might call it a Scene, for piracy. It is no coinci-
dence that P2P networks that connect individuals, forming ad 
hoc temporary groups, have thrived at the lower end of the pira-
cy food chain. Nevertheless, as we will go on to see, the tension 
between individualism and collectivity runs through the heart 
of  the  Warez  Scene. The  environment  prizes  elitism  and  indi-
vidual  skill  above  all  else.  Exclusivity  of  access — to  computer 
hardware, computational skill, a supply chain for various media 
forms — is  rewarded  with  even  further  exclusivity  and  admis-
sion to elite grounds far from the public view.

Conversely,  Sceners  are  almost  all  part  of  groups.  For  in-
stance,  Sceners  dub  couriers  in  the  iND  (individual)  group 
“lamers.” A pirate without a team is scarcely a pirate at all. Nev-
ertheless,  the  groups  are  fractious.  They  bicker,  argue,  attack 
one another, compete, and generally take a no-holds-barred ap-
proach. Hence, we have the contradiction at the heart of piracy: 
individualism and elitism run to its core, but at the same time 
no person is an island. A community spirit, of sorts, is crucial.

At various levels, online pirates have also been conceptual-
ized  in  terms  of  publishing  and  distribution  modalities,  as  an 
informal  distribution  mode.33  That  is,  some  have  taken  piracy 
to be a form of publishing, a distribution channel like any other 
with a dissemination role. As Balázs Bodó and Zoltán Lakatos 
note  of  Hungarian  P2P  sites,  for  example,  administrators  and 
uploaders  fulfill  “the  same  function  in  P2P  piracy  as  publish-

32  Ibid., 675.
33  Ramon Lobato and Julian Thomas, “An Introduction to Informal Media 

Economies,” Television & New Media 13, no. 5 (2012): 379–82.

 67

warez

ing does in the book industry.”34 As Virginia Crisp also shows, 
these shadow, publishing cultures mirror the practices of main-
stream distribution, with the highest value placed upon pirat-
ing the most famous works in licit channels.35 While it may be 
true to state that piracy is a form of distribution and that it does 
constitute part of the contemporary ecology of media distribu-
tion, the ways in which it can act to filter, frame, and amplify 
material — the  functions  that  Michael  Bhaskar  ascribes  to  the 
activity of “publishing” — are conditioned by mainstream, legal 
methods.36 That is to say that if we conceive of piracy as a pub-
lishing and dissemination activity, it is one that is closely linked 
to mainstream cultures of licit dissemination.

It  is  relatively  easy  to  see  how  piracy  fulfils  some  of  these 
functions  of  publishing.  Certainly,  pirate  cultures  amplify  the 
material that passes through their halls, although this may not 
operate in the ways that audiences, producers, or even pirates 
anticipate.37 In providing another route to obtaining the materi-
al, albeit in a way that undercuts the legal market with a free of-
fering, piracy amplifies. However, the functions of filtering and 
framing are somewhat different here than in conventional, per-
mitted distribution channels (such as sales through Amazon).

In  terms  of  filtering,  as  Crisp  notes,  the  material  that  sails 
through  pirate  channels  is  conditioned  by  the  material  pro-
duced  in  legal  streams.  To  return  to  my  original  formulation 
of “original pirate material,” this is a model in which the Scene 
emphasizes uniqueness and originality, despite it being a copy 

34  Balázs Bodó and Zoltán Lakatos, “Piracy Cultures| P2P and Cinemato-
graphic Movie Distribution in Hungary,” International Journal of Com-
munication 6 (2012), https://ijoc.org/index.php/ijoc/article/view/1261.
35  Virginia Crisp, “Access and Power: Film Distribution, Re-Intermediation 

and Piracy,” in The Routledge Companion to World Cinema, eds. Rob Stone 
et al. (London: Routledge, 2018), 449.

36  Michael Bhaskar, The Content Machine: Towards a Theory of Publishing 
from the Printing Press to the Digital Network (New York: Anthem Press, 
2013).

37  Virginia Crisp, “‘BLOODY PIRATES!!! *Shakes Fist*’: Reimagining East 
Asian Film Distribution and Reception through Online Filesharing Net-
works,” Journal of Japanese and Korean Cinema 3, no. 1 (2012): 65–72.

68

setting the scene

culture. There are sets of rules, covered extensively in Chapter 
Four,  that  determine  what  is  allowed  to  be  “published”  in  the 
Scene. Although these rules are a type of filtering, allowing both 
local (i.e., topsite-level) and Scene-wide prescriptions and pro-
scriptions, they are conditioned by the material put out by Hol-
lywood studios. The Scene rules are secondary filtering systems 
for a series of preproduced artifacts that have, already once be-
fore, been through various filtering mechanisms.

In terms of framing, the Scene certainly takes on this publish-
ing activity. The framing of the pirate artifact as being subject to 
quality control and rigorous scrutiny mechanisms is clear. This 
manifests, for instance, in the obscure, directory naming con-
ventions  that  mark  out  a  Scene  “release”  (the  term  used  for  a 
pirate artifact, be it a movie, TV show, computer game, or music 
recording). The Scene designation is meant to frame pirate pub-
lication as high-standard and high-speed.

Understanding  pirate  practices  through  the  lens  of  pub-
lishing is also apt as there are parallels between contemporary 
digital piracy and earlier phases of book publishing history. As 
Bodó Balázs puts it:

a  longer  historical  lens  suggests  that  the  current  crisis  of 
copyright,  piracy,  and  enforcement  has  much  in  common 
with  earlier  periods  of  change  and  conflict  among  cultural 
producers. From the early days of the book trade in the fif-
teenth century, cultural markets were shaped by deals within 
the publishing trade and with political authorities over who 
could reproduce works and on what terms. Broadly speak-
ing, pirate publishers then played two roles in this early his-
tory. In the first mode, “they printed censored texts” and in 
the second “they introduced cheap reprints that reached new 
reading publics.”38

38  Balázs Bodó, “Coda: A Short History of Book Piracy,” in Media Piracy in 

Emerging Economies, ed. Joe Karaganis (New York: Social Science Research 
Council, 2011), 399.

 69

warez

As we shall see, these pirate cultures are not brilliantly placed to 
circumvent censorship. However, they certainly reach new au-
diences who would not have paid for the original works. In the 
digital space, the mass publics who wish to download material 
without paying make an audience for this material. Ironically, 
members of the Scene decry the mass circulation of their work. 
While we can understand the high-level, piracy Scene in rela-
tion  to  histories  and  practices  of  publishing,  it  also  sits  in  an 
uneasy and ambivalent tension with such modes.

Nevertheless, if we consider piracy as a form of publication 
or  dissemination,  then  it  is  vital  to  consider  the  role  and  my-
thologies  of  the  original  author  or  artist.  Let  us  return  to  the 
starving artist figure, who plays a role in the appropriation and 
habilitation of piracy as a metaphor for digital copying outside 
the circuit of capital.39 The parallel here is that nonparticipation 
in consumer monetary exchange equates to starving someone. 
The logic is made causative, and the starving takes on the active 
voice. It is claimed in this case that it is from the artist that you 
are stealing the car.

The  romanticized  mythology  of  the  starving  artist  is  prob-
lematically  deployed  within  discourses  on  digital  piracy.  It  is 
true that, in some senses, copyright law places extreme restric-
tions  on  artistic  freedom.  For  example,  proponents  of  remix 
culture,  in  some  ways  central  to  the  argument  in  this  book, 
note  how  contemporary  copyright  law  impedes  the  interplay 
between tradition and the individual talent, forbidding the re-
use of in-copyright works within radically new spaces, even for 
artistic purposes.40 At the same time, as Matthew Barblan points 

39  For just a couple of the many studies that have looked at the economic 

effects of widespread, peer-to-peer piracy at lower tiers than the Scene to 
which I turn in this book, see Nico van Eijk, Joost Poort, and Paul Rutten, 
“Legal, Economic and Cultural Aspects of File Sharing,” Communications 
& Strategies 77, no. 1 (2010): 35–54; Gilbert B. Rodman and Cheyanne 
Vanderdonckt, “Music for Nothing or, I Want My MP3: The Regulation and 
Recirculation of Affect,” Cultural Studies 20, nos. 2–3 (2006): 245–61.
40  Lawrence Lessig, Remix: Making Art and Commerce Thrive in the Hybrid 
Economy (New York: Penguin Books, 2008); David Shields, Reality Hun-
ger: A Manifesto (London: Hamish Hamilton, 2011); Charlotte Higgins, 

70

setting the scene

out, “[a]s popular as the ‘starving artist’ cliché may be, real artists 
need food. Meeting artists’ basic needs goes a long way towards 
empowering  them  to  create  their  art.  Copyright’s  role  in  giv-
ing artists the economic freedom to meet their basic needs — by 
generating income from their art — is an important part of the 
relationship between copyright and creative freedom.”41 In turn, 
this is linked to the tricky intersections between commerce and 
art. As Tyler Cowen controversially put it, “[e]conomic circum-
stances influence the ability of artists to express their aesthetic 
aspirations. Specifically, artistic independence requires financial 
independence”; a sentiment that echoes Virginia Woolf ’s earlier 
feminist pronouncements on the need for a room of one’s own.42
The problem with the myth of the starving artist as a target 
of  anti-piracy  campaigns  is  that  one  is  not  supposed  to  chal-
lenge this stereotype. Instead, regardless of its truth, the myth is 
that the artist’s starvation is the factor that allows him or her to 
produce “great art” — a troubling assertion, to say the least. That 
is, anti-piracy campaigns summon the assertion that, in some 
ways, great artists should be starving. Although industry propo-
nents may say that they are working to alleviate this situation, 
anti-piracy  campaigns  that  invoke  the  figure  of  the  starving 
artist present at once a character that is to be pitied from their 
impoverishment while, simultaneously, painting a persona that 
relies  on  impecunity  for  artistic  creation.  Great  art,  this  myth 
seems to say, can only come from those who are starving.

Such a stance draws attention to precisely which figures we 
make out to be victims in anti-piracy campaigns. In some cases, 
the call to “support the artists” clarifies that it is creators whom 
digital pirates economically damage. This feeds and is fed by the 
myth of the starving artist. In other senses, more systemic, capi-

“China Miéville: Writers Should Welcome a Future Where Readers Remix 
Our Books,” The Guardian, August 21, 2012, http://www.theguardian.com/
books/2012/aug/21/china-mieville-novels-books-anti-piracy.

41  Matthew Barblan, “Copyright as a Platform for Artistic and Creative Free-

dom,” George Mason Law Review 23, no. 4 (2016): 794.

42  Tyler Cowen, In Praise of Commercial Culture (Cambridge: Harvard Uni-

versity Press, 2000), 16.

 71

warez

talistic damage is posited to the consumer. The logic goes that 
if people refuse to pay for games, music, and movies, eventually 
these artifacts will not be manufactured, thereby damaging the 
consumer. As James Newman puts it: “[c]oncerted anti-piracy 
campaigns  from  the  1980s  onwards,  such  as  the  “Don’t  copy 
that  floppy”  television  campaign,  have  consistently  sought  to 
discursively construct the legally-paying consumer as the real 
victim.”43  This  context  switching  between  harm  to  the  creator 
and harm to the consumer calls into question the tricky interre-
lationship between art and commerce, between autonomy and 
utility. For even as the myth of the starving artist posed the use 
of commerce as a way of supporting artistic genius, such niche, 
arthouse  productions  are  often  not  those  upon  which  digital 
piracy trains its sights. The popular artforms that pirates most 
frequently target are those with mass appeal — the products of 
what first-generation Frankfurt School thinkers such as Theo-
dor  W.  Adorno  and  Max  Horkheimer  would  call  “the  culture 
industry.”44 While, as Maria A. Slowinska has pointed out, there 
are ways in which many “contemporary art and contemporary 
commercial  strategies”  converge  to  form  a  new  hybrid  figure 
of  art  and  commerce,  the  fact  that  there  is  a  populism  in  the 
targets of digital piracy should make us question the role of the 
starving artist within such discourses.45 It should also lead us to 
question how revolutionary piracy is if it just serves up the same 
culture industry products. Is it the same figure hiding behind 
the moniker of “creator” when one summons Vincent van Gogh 
and the Disney corporation? Both are “starving” artists under 
some anti-piracy rhetorics.

43  James Newman, Videogames (London: Routledge, 2013), 145.
44  See Max Horkheimer and Theodor W. Adorno, “The Culture Industry: 
Enlightenment as Mass Deception,” in Dialectic of Enlightenment: Philo-
sophical Fragments, ed. Gunzelin Schmid Noerr, trans. Edmund Jephcott 
(Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2002), 95–136; Deborah Cook, The 
Culture Industry Revisited: Theodor W. Adorno on Mass Culture (Lanham: 
Rowman and Littlefield, 1996).

45  Maria A. Slowinska, Art/Commerce: The Convergence of Art and Marketing 

in Contemporary Culture (Bielefeld: Transcript Verlag, 2014), 17.

72

setting the scene

Then,  piracy  is  at  once  both  an  attack  on  and  a  replicative 
function within capital. Like theft, piracy is an attack on capi-
tal accumulation within circuits of commerce. It is a disruptive 
mechanism that blocks the intended flow of finance. This is why 
there are laws against it. At the same time, piracy has an often-
neglected  function  of  replicating  popular  media  forms,  with 
personal accumulation at the lowest possible price point — zero. 
Digital  piracy  accrues  personal  gain  to  the  perpetrators  and 
practitioners,  even  if  it  does  not  entail  loss  in  the  same  sense 
as theft for the original owner. In this book, I demonstrate that 
this gain need not even be the item that is pirated but a form 
of cultural cachet within the subcultural Warez Scene. In short, 
there are economic logics within the alternative reality game of 
the Scene that replicate the macro-economics of contemporary 
capital. Thus, while piracy may wreck certain economic systems, 
it does so by reimplementing its own micro-logics of capital and 
redistributing the culture industry’s homogenized outputs.

The fact that piracy operates on its own logic of capital was 
recognized in the 1997 “No Electronic Theft Act” (NET) in the 
US. As Eric Goldman notes, “[t]he NET Act modified criminal 
copyright law […] in two principal ways: first, it expanded the 
definition of ‘financial gain’ to cover bartering implicit in warez 
trading, and second, it created a new basis of criminal infringe-
ment based only on a minimum quantum of infringement (irre-
spective of motive).”46 The former is essential since criminal cop-
yright infringement is “the willful infringement of a copyright 
(a)  for  purposes  of  commercial  advantage  or  private  financial 
gain […] or (b) by the reproduction or distribution (including 
by electronic means), during any 180 day period, of copyrighted 
works with a total retail value of more than $1,000.”47 Of course, 
one could argue that legal frameworks such as the NET Act are 
merely  bringing  piracy  to  be  understood  within  an  economic 
frame of reference, rather than the piratical activities themselves 

46  Eric Goldman, “Warez Trading and Criminal Copyright Infringement,” 

SSRN Electronic Journal (2004): 3.

47  Ibid., 4.

 73

warez

possessing an economic character. Certainly the NET Act has the 
obvious benefit of making warez trading a form of criminal ac-
tivity that can be successfully prosecuted, as had happened in 
over eighty cases by 2004.48

But digital piracy is also not one, single thing. As Goldman 
puts it, “[t]he generic term warez trading imprecisely lumps to-
gether disparate activities.”49 In this book, I deal with the sub-
set of piracy that takes place in elite circles behind closed doors 
rather  than  the  mass  systems  of  P2P  sharing  that  may  cause 
large-scale, economic damage through their broad accessibility. 
That said, these two spheres are not entirely separable; releases 
from  the  Scene  leak  into  the  public  sphere  and  are  usable  by 
anyone  who  stumbles  across  them.50  For  this  reason,  the  next 
section of the book deals with the forms of piracy that are not 
the Scene. This tension between the desire to share and the de-
sire  to  remain  hidden  runs  through  the  analyses  of  this  book 
and reveals the curious and conflicting motivations that drive 
people to participate within these subcultures.

Finally, if piracy is often romanticized, as much of this sec-
tion has suggested, then we should pay close attention to whose 
piracy  is  romanticized.  In  the  West  or  Global  North,51  piracy 
is often romanticized through an exoticization, or orientaliza-
tion,  of  racial  mythology.  Historically,  as  Kavita  Philip  notes, 
“[t]he pirate figure has commonly functioned as a raced, gen-
dered subaltern who effects the inversion of hegemonic power 
relations.”52 This seafaring imaginary of deviant, racial servitude 

48  Ibid., 3.
49  Eric Goldman, “The Challenges of Regulating Warez Trading,” Social Sci-

ence Computer Review 23, no. 1 (2005): 24.

50  Goldman, “Warez Trading and Criminal Copyright Infringement,” passim.
51  There are many problems with the homogenizing move of referring to the 
Global North or the West, but I nonetheless use these terms as challeng-
ing yet useful groupings through which to explore briefly various racial 
imaginaries of piracy. See Dimiter Toshkov, “The ‘Global South’ Is a Ter-
rible Term. Don’t Use It!,” RE-DESIGN, November 11, 2018, http://re-design.
dimiter.eu/?p=969.

52  Kavita Philip, “What Is a Technological Author? The Pirate Function and 

Intellectual Property,” Postcolonial Studies 8, no. 2 (2005): 199.

74

setting the scene

runs from St. Augustine through Bertolt Brecht, but it has also 
evolved to match the contemporary digital world. In the digi-
tal space, the fear of pirate Others, particularly bootleggers in 
“Eastern” nations, has arisen as a specter to haunt Hollywood 
studios  and  record  labels.  The  ways  in  which  this  can  be  un-
derstood lie in the “world-shaping,” “ideological work” that in-
volves “naming the original as ‘real’ and the copy as ‘fake’”; a way 
for  corporations  to  re-mark  damaging  piracy  as  the  efforts  of 
foreign agents, as dominant forces have done through history.53 
Consider that “good piracy,” which is romanticized as political 
freedom fighting, often takes the form, of, for instance, free-cul-
ture pioneers such as Lawrence Lessig arguing before the US Su-
preme Court for the right of consumers to copy their own me-
dia and to transform it. By contrast, as Philip goes on to argue,  
“[b]ad piracy is Asian piracy”; the cheap resale of “counterfeit” 
DVDs on the street corner.54

This is to say that while certain forms of piracy are roman-
ticized, racial or ethnic biases drive these choices. Ironically, as 
we will go on to see, the Scene actually reproduces some of these 
(post-)colonial  logics  itself.  The  geo-segmentation  of  Warez 
networks into the US, European, and Asian sites, with poor in-
tercontinental routing speeds, led to a hierarchy of topsites in 
which  different  racing  charts  were  produced  for  different  re-
gions.55 In turn, this drove a valorization of specific geographic 
site locations, mostly centered in the US and Europe. It is also 
notable  that,  as  the  Scene  deals  with  almost  every  digital  me-
dia format available, pornography is also prominent within this 
space. Given that pornography has well-known racial character-
istics and that pornographic works have titles that denote genre 
through racial labels, the Scene is a space that is flooded with 
a stream of textual, racial epithets. Even if it has been argued, 
then, that “pornography often promises difference, but actually 

53  Ibid., 208.
54  Ibid., 212.
55  Alf Rehn, “Electronic Potlatch: A Study on New Technologies and Primi-
tive Economic Behaviors” (PhD diss., Royal Institute of Technology, 
Stockholm, 2001), 102.

 75

warez

culminates  in  a  universalizing  sex  act  which  overcomes  dif-
ference,” the Scene is a world where announcement bots daily 
sexualize and objectify Black and Asian people.56

The geographic and linguistic centers of the Scene that I cov-
er  seem  to  have  an  Anglo-European  bias.  As  English  remains 
the dominant language of intercultural exchange in most spac-
es,  this  is  hardly  surprising.  As  we  will  see,  many  Scene  rules 
specify that only the Latin character set (i.e., a–z) are valid in 
release filenames, thereby requiring the transliteration of non-
anglophone releases. That said, there are groups that specialize 
in  releasing  material  from  non-English  cultures.  For  instance, 
many release names reflect the Japanese pop music genre (JPOP) 
(e.g., 
“4TE-More_Ippo_Zutsu-JPOP-WEB-2015-POWDER”). 
While this shows that the Scene does work internationally, it is 
also the case that such releases must set themselves aside, using 
the JPOP or KPOP (Korean pop) tags. Given that this text appears 
in the release name, many topsites also likely ban such releases. 
The  marker  of  distinction  and  diversity  here  also  serves  as  a 
marker by which releases may be excluded. The majority of this 
book is concerned with the functions of the Anglophone Scene. 
This is due to a combination of factors, including but not limited 
to the composition of the archives to which I had access and my 
ability to read only European languages. It is possible that other 
more geographically specific Scenes would merit further atten-
tion and research.

piracy outside of the scene

If we are not to conceive of digital piracy in romanticizing anti-
capitalist terms, yet we are also to value or, at least, to under-
stand the craft and novelty of original pirate material that con-
stitute  my  claimed  warez  aesthetic,  then  we  need  to  consider 
the  different  levels  of  the  piracy  ecosystem  and  the  differing 

56  See the description of Celine Parreñas Shimizu’s work in Jennifer C. Nash, 
The Black Body in Ecstasy: Reading Race, Reading Pornography (Durham: 
Duke University Press, 2014), 132.

76

setting the scene

motivations of actors within that web.57 Often constructed as a 
hierarchical “piracy pyramid,” online copyright violation can be 
broken down into a hierarchy as follows, from top to bottom:

1.  Topsites, or the Scene
2.  File eXchange Protocol (FXP) boards
3.  Private torrent trackers
4.  Public torrent trackers, or XDCC and other P2P mechanisms
5.  Bootleggers.58

The  remaining  chapters  of  this  book  primarily  focus  on  the 
top level of this environment — the topsites and release groups 
that  constitute  the  network  known  as  the  Warez  Scene.  But  it 
is  worth  unpacking  the  lower  hierarchies  to  understand  each 
level’s motivations and conceptualize piracy within these spaces. 
As Jonas Andersson and Stefan Larsson note, motivations and 
justifications  for  participation  vary  hugely  between  different 
types  of  actors  within  these  areas.59  But  the  Warez  Scene  can 
only really be understood by its distinction from other types of 
piracy, by its differentiation from other forms.

57  For more on avoiding the romanticising terms, see You Jie, “Cultural Re-

sistance or Corporate Assistance: Disenchanting the Anti-Capitalist Myth 
of Digital Piracy,” in Piracy, eds. Fredriksson and Arvanitakis, 195–215. 
See also Francesca da Rimini and Jonathan Marshall, “Piracy Is Normal, 
Piracy Is Boring: Systemic Disruption as Everyday Life,” in Piracy, eds. 
Fredriksson and Arvanitakis, 323–44.

58  For more on the pyramid terminology, see Andrew Sockanathan, “Digital 
Desire and Recorded Music: OiNK, Mnemotechnics and the Private Bit-
Torrent Architecture” (PhD diss., Goldsmiths, University of London, 2011), 
188–93. For another pair who use the pyramid terminology and set this out 
in visual form, albeit confined only to the virtual space, see Ard Huizing 
and Jan A. van der Wal, “Explaining the Rise and Fall of the Warez MP3 
Scene: An Empirical Account from the Inside,” First Monday 19, no. 10 
(2014).

59  Jonas Andersson and Stefan Larsson, “The Justification of Piracy: Differ-
ences in Conceptualization and Argumentation Between Active Upload-
ers and Other File-Sharers,” in Piracy, eds. Fredriksson and Arvanitakis, 
217–40.

 77

warez

Figure 1. Huizing and van der Wal’s pyramid. Reproduced under a 
Creative Commons License. 

Diff erent  scholars  have  painted  the  pyramid  diff erently  at 
diff erent times and with diverse structuring motivations for the 
hierarchy.  Ard  Huizing  and  Jan  A.  van  der  Wal,  for  instance, 
compare the Scene to private torrents, newsgroups, and public 
P2P networks (shown in Figure 1).60 Th  e structuring logic that 
Huizing  and  van  der  Wal  employ  is  across  the  axes  of  “com-
munity” or “We-ness,” as they term it. Th  ey also use the level of 
time investment made by members of each tier with a fi nal di-
mension indicating the relative proportion of users within each 
segment. Th  at is, for Huizing and van der Wal, the Scene can be 
characterized as a space of a small userbase, where participants 
spend a lot of their time as part of a tight-knit community. By 
contrast, public P2P networks represent the precise opposite on 
every  single  one  of  these  traits. Th  e  descending  area  coverage 
of each tier of the pyramid makes it an excellent metaphorical 
form for this representation.

As Virginia Crisp has aptly shown, this diagram and all such 
pyramids are reductive. Her own schema of the formal and in-
formal movie distribution ecology aptly shows the bottlenecks 

60  Huizing and van der Wal, “Explaining the Rise and Fall of the Warez MP3

Scene.”

78

setting the scene

and  entry  points  when  filtering  through  these  systems.61  It  is 
clear that, in reality, a simple pyramid is reductive of the flows 
between official and non-official distribution. Despite this, for 
reasons of concision in this explanatory portion of the book, I 
stick to a simplified pyramid and hierarchical structure, albeit 
one that also encompasses non-digital piracy (e.g., bootleggers 
selling material on street corners). Such an approach confounds, 
to  some  extent,  Huizing  and  van  der  Wal’s  setup.  Bootleggers 
likely spend a significant amount of time in their pirate activi-
ties, and they profit from it, even if they are not a closely bonded 
group and even if they are a broader userbase. Starting at the 
bottom of my structure, it is perhaps easiest to understand the 
motivations of these bootleggers.62

“Bootleggers” are people who sell pirated material, be it on 
the  streets  or  online.  We  should  take  note  that  there  is  some-
times a racialized demonization of the idea of bootlegging, as it 
often takes place within less economically developed nations.63 
Nonetheless,  such  individuals  will  have  a  variety  of  supply 
chains for their material, which will range from full Scene re-
leases — with the Scene sometimes billed as the key distribution 
route — right  down  to  home-made  copies  of  media  that  they 
legally  own  but  have  illegally  duplicated.64  The  motivation  of 
these individuals is crystal clear: they are into piracy in order to 
make money.65 Bootleggers are often confused, as Lee Marshall 
notes,  with  “tape  traders,”  who  have,  for  example,  recorded  a 
live  gig  of  jambands  such  as  Phish,  the  Dave  Matthews  Band, 
and the Grateful Dead, who all encourage this practice. Indeed, 
tape trading is a licit activity in which such bands “permit their 
audiences to record their live concerts and then let fans trade 

61  Virginia Crisp, “Release Groups & The Scene: Re-Intermediation and 

Competitive Gatekeepers Online,” Cinéma & Cie 17, no. 29 (Fall 2017): 77.

62  The definitive study of music bootleggers, on which I draw here, is Lee 

Marshall, “For and Against the Record Industry: An Introduction to Boot-
leg Collectors and Tape Traders,” Popular Music 22, no. 1 (2003): 57–72.

63  Philip, “What Is a Technological Author?” 207.
64  Crisp, “Release Groups & The Scene,” 78.
65  Marshall, “For and against the Record Industry,” 58.

 79

warez

80

setting the scene

Figure 2. Virginia Crisp’s more thorough diagram of distribution 
sources. Copyright Virginia Crisp, reproduced by kind permission of 
the author. 

these recordings amongst themselves on the condition that no 
money is involved.”66 Tape trading is legitimate, as long as it is 
noncommercial. Bootleggers, by contrast, reintroduce commer-
cial  motive  into  piracy  and,  as  a  result,  are  hated  in  common 
both by anti-piracy outfits and, as we shall see, the Scene itself.

Importantly,  as  I  note  in  several  contexts  throughout  this 
book, most Scene releases come with strict prohibitions against 
selling their pirated warez. To be caught bootlegging or selling 
warez outputs will, in most cases, merit a lifetime “SceneBan.” 
This has caused a great deal of confusion in the secondary litera-
ture. Some work, such as S.M. Furnell’s taxonomy of cybercrime, 
has totally misread the motivations of Sceners. For while he cor-
rectly ascribes “challenge,” “ego,” and “ideology” to Sceners, he 
also writes erroneously that they operate for “money.”67 This goes 
directly against the vast body of evidence in, say, Scene notices 
and announcements that decry those who sell warez or access.68
While  this  spurning  of  commercial  motive  could  lead  us 
back  to  romantic  ideals  of  piracy,  it  is  not  truly  linked  to  any 
deep-seated ethical principle. It is rather because selling pirate 
material is likely to attract unwanted legal attention. However, 
anti-piracy  campaigns,  such  as  the  aforementioned  notori-
ous “You Wouldn’t Steal a Car” campaign, have often targeted 
this bootlegging level of pirates, accusing the practice of fund-
ing  terrorism.69  For  instance,  a  report  commissioned  by  the 
RAND Corporation accuses the Warez Scene of supplying ma-

66  Ibid.
67  S.M. Furnell, “Categorising Cybercrime and Cybercriminals,” Journal of 

Information Warfare 1, no. 2 (2020): 42.

68  For instance, RUHEBITTE, “The Truth About Warez Seller Since aka Kar-
tus aka Styler (The.truth.about.warez.seller.Since.aka.Kaktus.aka.Styler-
RUHEBITTE),” c. 2006–2010, DeFacto2, warez-scene-notices-2006-2010.
69  Steve Cisler, “Pirates of the Pacific Rim,” Leonardo 39, no. 4 (August 2006): 

377–80.

 81

warez

terial that is used by “many more people further downstream” 
(e.g., the bootleggers) to fund terrorism. These accusations are 
even  made  while,  “as  far  as  can  be  determined,”  Warez  Scene 
groups themselves “do not engage in other forms of organized 
crime,  such  as  drug  or  human  trafficking”  and  “are  driven  by 
the challenge, by wanting access to free goods, and by the thrill 
of ‘living on the edge,’ not to mention ‘street cred[it]’ among the 
groups.”70 Crisp’s distribution diagram seems to confirm that the 
Scene is one of the few routes by which, for example, films en-
ter lower pirate markets. Even when it is claimed that “the true 
warez culture is a non-profit venture,” an aspect to which I will 
return, this is problematic given that the Scene does likely feed 
bootlegging markets.71 As a result, even though the Scene has a 
strict ethos of prohibiting the distribution of their releases on 
public P2P media72 and membership bases who “strongly object 
to commercial piracy,” commerce springs from their activities, 
downstream in bootlegging.73

Bootleggers pose a genuine threat to the economics of vari-
ous  media  industries.  As  I  have  already  noted,  there  is  a  geo-
specificity to this. As Kline et al. point out, “the major breed-
ing-grounds  for  contraband  games  are  probably  in  the  black 
markets of the world, China, the Russian Federation, Southeast 
Asia, and other emerging, or declining, markets.”74 While Hong 
Kong is lined with markets selling the latest contraband Play-

70  Gregory F. Treverton et al., “The Shape of Counterfeiting and the Example 
of Film Piracy,” in Film Piracy, Organized Crime, and Terrorism (Santa 
Monica: RAND Corporation, 2009), 38.

71  Stephen Kline, Nick Dyer-Witheford, and Greig De Peuter, “Workers and 
Warez: Labour and Piracy in the Global Game Market,” in Digital Play: 
The Interaction of Technology, Culture, and Marketing (Montreal: McGill-
Queen’s University Press, 2003), 212.

72  WALMART, “WALMART Anti-P2P Statement (tairlthan-walmart.nfo),” 

2007, DeFacto2.

73  Goldman, “Warez Trading and Criminal Copyright Infringement,” 11.
74  Kline, Dyer-Witheford, and De Peuter, “Workers and Warez,” 213. For an 
exploration of cultural differences in music piracy between the US and 
Japan, see Ian Condry, “Cultures of Music Piracy: An Ethnographic Com-
parison of the US and Japan,” International Journal of Cultural Studies 7, no. 
3 (2004): 343–63.

82

setting the scene

Station titles, by some estimates 98 percent of titles are pirated 
in  Russia  and  Ukraine.  However,  it  is  a  mistake  to  see  this  as 
entirely localized. The Interactive Digital Software Association 
“accuses more than fifty countries of either aiding counterfeiters 
or failing to establish or seriously enforce adequate protections 
against  theft  of  intellectual  property.”  Despite  Sceners  trying 
to keep releases in the family, their work finds its way down to 
bootleggers who are spread worldwide. “If the interactive game 
industry is now globalized,” write Kline et al., then “so too is the 
shadow world of pirate enterprise that haunts it.”75

In my hierarchy, the level above bootleggers is the set of pub-
lic torrent trackers that have been a thorn in the side of criminal 
enforcement agencies for almost two decades. The most notori-
ous  of  these  in  the  West,  The  Pirate  Bay,  has  proved  virtually 
impossible  to  close,  despite  massive  ongoing  legal  efforts,  po-
lice raids, and state interventions.76 These sites are public, open 
depositories  of  pirated  material  in  which  end  users  use  pro-
tocols  such  as  Bittorrent,  a  fast  P2P  distribution  algorithm,  to 
disseminate the material among themselves. The actual torrent 
files, hosted by sites such as The Pirate Bay, do not contain the 
pirated material itself. Instead, the torrent files are pointers that 
coordinate peers to communicate and to share the files. The ini-
tial seeder is the person who has infringed, not the intermediate 
hosting site. Therefore, when these sites are raided there is no 
actual pirate material on their servers, despite their clear, ongo-
ing intent to violate copyright law. Instead, the central servers 

75  Kline, Dyer-Witheford, and De Peuter, “Workers and Warez,” 215.
76  There is a large, secondary literature that focuses on The Pirate Bay and 
other public trackers, their influence on politics, and crime. For just a 
selection, see Patrick Burkart, Pirate Politics: The New Information Policy 
Contests (Cambridge: MIT Press, 2014); Joost Poort et al., “Baywatch: Two 
Approaches to Measure the Effects of Blocking Access to The Pirate Bay,” 
Telecommunications Policy 38, no. 4 (May 2014): 383–92; Felix Oberholzer-
Gee and Koleman Strumpf, “File Sharing and Copyright,” Innovation 
Policy and the Economy 10, no. 1 (2010): 19–55; Astra Taylor, “Serfıng 
the Net,” The Baffler 2, no. 1 [18] (2010): 20–26. Again, I note here the 
geographical specificity of my claim, using the slightly problematic, but 
nonetheless helpful catch-all of the “West.”

 83

warez

themselves merely have the indexing files. Such a torrent system 
is akin to having the table of contents to a book that points to 
where  you  can  get  the  chapter  but  not  the  chapter  itself.  This 
referential  characteristic  of  torrenting  has  made  it  difficult,  in 
legal terms, to shut down sites like The Pirate Bay.

While  this  type  of  torrent  site  is  open  to  the  public,  a  tier 
of  activity  above  this  works  on  an  invitation-only  basis — pri-
vate Bittorrent trackers. These sites require users to be active in 
uploading and participating. They usually have strict rules and 
quality assurance processes. These, in turn, lead to well-seeded 
torrents and high-quality material, shared between a limited but 
still relatively large userbase.

To date, the most notorious, private Bittorrent trackers have 
been  Oink’s  Pink  Palace  and  its  successor,  What.CD.  These 
websites were private music trackers funded by donations from 
the userbase, which provided a clear legal route to their pros-
ecution. Specializing in lossless distribution formats where the 
sound  quality  of  the  music  is  identical  to  the  original  on  the 
recording (i.e., is not compressed in a way that loses any qual-
ity), Oink’s Pink Palace was eventually raided and shut down in 
2007 having run for three years. The founder of the site, Alan El-
lis (the eponymous “Oink”), was prosecuted for copyright fraud 
but was not found guilty even though he did not deny running 
the site, demonstrating the difficulty of legally pursuing torrent 
website operators (siteops).77

Oink’s  Pink  Palace  was  succeeded  by  What.CD,  which  ran 
from 2007 until 2016, when it preemptively shut down to avoid 
a  raid.78  Perhaps  the  most  notable  feature  of  this  site  was  the 
introduction  of  its  own  custom  server  software  and  its  highly 
slick tracker website, Ocelot and Gazelle, respectively. The pro-
fessionalism of these software developments, which could han-
dle up to five million connected peers with just three gigabytes 

77  “Music File-Sharer ‘Oink’ Cleared of Fraud,” BBC News, January 15, 2010, 

http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/tees/8461879.stm.

78  For more on these trackers, see Blake Durham, “Circulatory Maintenance: 
The Entailments of Participation in Digital Music Platforms,” American 
Music 38, no. 2 (Summer 2020): 197.

84

setting the scene

of  RAM,  has  many  similarities  to  the  custom  FTP  daemons  of 
the Scene, covered below.79 Although undeniably and totally il-
legal, such was the extent and organizational prowess of What.
CD that it was hailed, even in professional journalism circles, as  
“[t]he greatest music collection in the world,” ever.80 Just as Li-
brary Genesis is painted as the illegal equivalent of the Library 
of Alexandra in the digital-book, piracy space, so What.CD was 
for music.81 Clearly, requiring that users remain active, upload 
material at a ratio to their download, and have strong catalogu-
ing and metadata principles led to the creation of what can only 
be described as a professional piracy outfit, despite the fact that 
the site administrators did not profit financially from their deal-
ings. It is clear that the Scene is a much more tightly knit group, 
and that private Bittorrent trackers are much more spread out 
than  this;  however,  there  are  distinct  parallels  between  the 
“best” outfits at this level, and the work of the top-level Scene.

The motivations of those who participate in Bittorrent “com-
munities” are varied.82 Most people who use public trackers, it 
can be assumed, are primarily interested in acquiring the end 
content free of charge. As there are no motivational structures, 
such  as  a  requirement  to  upload,  the  focus  is  on  the  material 

79  Ernesto Van der Sar, “‘What.CD’ Debuts Lightweight Tracker for Its 5 

Million Peers,” TorrentFreak, October 14, 2010, https://torrentfreak.com/
what-cd-debuts-lightweight-tracker-for-its-5-million-peers-101014/.
80  Nikhil Sonnad, “A Eulogy for What.CD, the Greatest Music Collection in 
the History of the World—Until it Vanished,” Quartz, November 18, 2016, 
https://qz.com/840661/what-cd-is-gone-a-eulogy-for-the-greatest-music-
collection-in-the-world/.

81  Balázs Bodó, “The Genesis of Library Genesis: The Birth of a Global 

Scholarly Shadow Library,” in Shadow Libraries: Access to Educational 
Materials in Global Higher Education, ed. Joe Karaganis (Cambridge: MIT 
Press, 2018), 25–52; Balázs Bodó, “Library Genesis in Numbers: Mapping 
the Underground Flow of Knowledge,” in Shadow Libraries, ed. Karaganis, 
53–78; Martin Paul Eve, “Lessons from the Library: Extreme Minimalist 
Scaling at Pirate Ebook Platforms,” Digital Humanities Quarterly (2022), 
forthcoming.

82  Mark Cenite et al., “More Than Just Free Content: Motivations of Peer-

to-Peer File Sharers,” Journal of Communication Inquiry 33, no. 3 (2009): 
206–21.

 85

warez

itself on these sites. Furthermore, there is often less of a “cult of 
the uploader” around releases, compared to, for instance, private 
torrent  sites,  where  user  classes  and  hierarchies  reward  those 
who upload quality releases, which I cover in Chapter Four..

On occasion, proponents have nonetheless argued that such 
pirate sites act as cultural depositories, preserve media for the 
longer  term,  and  motivate  broad  participation — “shadow  li-
braries”  as  “dark  archives.”  This  is  an  extension  of  my  earlier 
argument that piracy is a type of publishing activity. Certainly, 
there was a direct campaign to preserve the illegal archive in the 
case of the Library Genesis torrent collection.83 However, there 
is a problem with this argument: the robustness of these illegal 
sites as a preservation system is dubious at best. Hence, those 
who believe that such activities constitute “a grand subaltern re-
pository  for  access  and  preservation”  are  overlooking  the  fact 
that  recent  studies  show  preservation  robustness  of  not  more 
than  40  percent.84  Certainly,  this  may  be  better  than  nothing, 
and  we  cannot  ignore  these  so-called  “shadow  economies”  of 
illicit distribution, but it is hardly a solid infrastructural basis on 
which to found the perpetuation of our cultures.85

One  of  the  challenges  in  understanding  the  motivations  of 
various actors in these spaces is that different media types may 
come with different motivations. Suppose we assume that par-
ticipation  in  public,  torrenting  communities  occurs  primarily 

83  See, for example, u/shrine, “Charitable Seeding Update: 10 Terabytes and 
900,000 Scientific Books in a Week with Seedbox.Io and UltraSeedbox,” 
Reddit, 2019, https://www.reddit.com/r/seedboxes/comments/e3yl23/
charitable_seeding_update_10_terabytes_and_900000/; u/shrine, “Library 
Genesis Project Update: 2.5 Million Books Seeded with the World, 80 
Million Scientific Articles Next,” Reddit, 2020, https://www.reddit.com/r/
DataHoarder/comments/ed9byj/library_genesis_project_update_25_mil-
lion_books/.

84  John D. Martin, “Piracy, Public Access, and Preservation: An Exploration 
of Sustainable Accessibility in a Public Torrent Index,” Proceedings of the 
Association for Information Science and Technology 53, no. 1 (2016): 1–6
85  For more on the use of the term “shadow economy,” see Ramón Lobato, 
Shadow Economies of Cinema: Mapping Informal Film Distribution (Lon-
don: Palgrave Macmillan, 2012).

86

setting the scene

in order to obtain illegally copied objects. In that case, there are 
many  reasons  why  an  agent  may  do  so.  However,  the  reasons 
vary  with  the  artifact  in  question.  For  instance,  it  is  plausible 
that some software piracy takes place within a business context. 
Pirate copies of, for instance, Microsoft’s Office suite might be 
obtained  by  those  working  within  professional  office  cultures. 
By contrast, the motivations in obtaining the latest Marvel Cin-
ematic Universe superhero film are less likely to be professional, 
and it is more likely that such a user would participate to en-
hance their own leisure time. Likewise, the motivations in ob-
taining pirate copies of academic books may be very different 
to the reasons for obtaining the latest heavy metal album, and it 
would be different ethically too, given that education is an elee-
mosynary purpose.

Moreover, motivations for acquiring digital artifacts for free 
through public torrenting and its precursors are often relation-
al  to  the  user  and  their  financial  circumstances.  For  example, 
consider  a  1994  study  that  found  that  the  individual  benefits 
of  pirating  software  pertained  to  financial  gain,  overcoming 
the challenge of copying, and not having to go out to buy the 
software.86 Likewise, a 1997 study found that the most frequent 
argument for software piracy was that software was too expen-
sive, and end users said that they could not afford to purchase 
it.87 The personal circumstances of an individual appear to play 
a crucial role in why they may download copyrighted material 
without paying. Generalizing to entire spheres of activity may 
paint a false picture.

It  is  possible  to  speculate  near-endlessly  about  the  motiva-
tions for participating in the acquisition of illegally copied arti-
facts, and there have been many studies examining such behav-

86  Penny M. Simpson, Debasish Banerjee, and Claude L. Simpson, “Softlift-
ing: A Model of Motivating Factors,” Journal of Business Ethics 13, no. 6 
(1994): 431–38.

87  Hsing K. Cheng, Ronald R. Sims, and Hildy Teegen, “To Purchase or to 

Pirate Software: An Empirical Study,” Journal of Management Information 
Systems 13, no. 4 (1997): 49–60.

 87

warez

ior.88 However, what seems clear is that, at the crossover point 
from public to private Bittorrent trackers, there is the beginning 
of a shift in generalized motivation. While many private Bittor-
rent  users  participate  because  they  wish  to  have  access  to  pi-
rated  artifacts,  it  is  also  at  this  step  in  the  pyramid  hierarchy 
that piracy begins to take on a life of its own. That is, some of 
the  structures  of  private  Bittorrent  trackers  encourage  pirates 
to participate for the sake of piracy, rather than to gain access 
to  new  music,  films,  and  software.  Whether  public  or  private, 
while Bittorrent trackers are not formally considered to be part 
of the Warez Scene, we can begin to see motivational congru-
ence at this point.89

The  motivational  and  rule-based  structures  of  such  private 
trackers reveal this shift. Private Bittorrent trackers have strict 
rules about participation, and they structure participants’ abil-
ity to download according to a ratio system. For example, the 
user must have uploaded a certain amount in a ratio to down-
load. Hence a ratio of 1.5 means that the user has uploaded 1.5 
times the amount they have downloaded. At first glance, there 
does  not  seem  to  be  any  particular  significance  to  this,  and 
the motivation remains a desire to have enough upload credit 
to download new releases. However, it goes further than that. 
The Project Gazelle tracker that powered What.CD has support 
for in-built user classes. These range from “Member” through 
“Elite”  and  up  to  “Torrent  Master.”90  These  user  classes  some-
times  have  extraordinary  criteria.  The  default  number  of  up-
loads, for instance, to become a “Torrent Master,” is set in the 

88  Moez Limayem, Mohamed Khalifa, and Wynne W. Chin, “Factors 

Motivating Software Piracy: A Longitudinal Study,” IEEE Transactions on 
Engineering Management 51, no. 4 (November 2004): 414–25.

89  For more on this, see Sockanathan, “Digital Desire and Recorded Music,” 
194; b-bstf, “Guide to Internet Piracy,” 2600: Hacker Quarterly (Summer 
2004).

90  What.CD, “Project Gazelle,” GitHub, 2020, https://github.com/WhatCD/

Gazelle.

88

setting the scene

codebase to 500 uploads.91 As we will see, ratio and lifetime up-
load statistics also play a core role in Scene couriering practices.
Given that each upload to a private torrent tracker has sig-
nificant  and  rigorous  metadata  input  requirements,  and  given 
that  running  a  client  setup  with  500  local  torrents  requires 
substantial computational resource, the existence of these user 
classes  suggests  more  than  simply  a  desire  to  earn  credits  for 
download.92 Instead, there is a prestige economy at work here, 
where users seek recognition, albeit pseudonymous, from their 
pirating  peers.  The  promotions  system  used  by  these  private 
trackers  gamifies  the  uploading  process.  It  makes  the  activity 
an end in itself with similar prestige pursuit as the alternative 
reality game of the Warez Scene. As Blake Durham puts it, pri-
vate trackers are structured as “prestige econom[ies] primarily 
organized around the exchange of digital audio files.”93 However, 
they also animate “a vibrant social ecology in which users regard 
upload statistics and musical-technical knowledge as symbolic 
capital.”94 That is, knowledge and ownership play a role in the 
systems of symbolic exchange and respect.

This  system  also  introduces  scarcity  to  ensure  competition 
and fair play with a strict one-account-per-lifetime rule and an 
insistence that they will severely punish any rule-breaking. In a 
similar fashion to the so-called “SceneBan” of the Warez Scene, 
the idea is that members have one chance, and, if they blow it, 
they are out. Particularly relevant to private trackers is the de-
fault rule, built into the Gazelle codebase, that insists that users 
“do not trade, sell, give away, or offer accounts.”95 As we will go 
on to see, this mirrors the language used in the NFO files of the 
Warez  Scene  that  repeatedly  stipulate  the  noncommercial  na-
ture of the enterprise and on which we have already touched. 

91  What.CD, “Project Gazelle: Sections/Schedule/Index.php,” GitHub, Janu-

ary 8, 2016, https://github.com/WhatCD/Gazelle.

92  Durham, “Circulatory Maintenance,” 205–6.
93  Ibid., 199.
94  Ibid.
95  What.CD, “Project Gazelle: Classes/Rules.Class.php,” GitHub, November 

8, 2016, https://github.com/WhatCD/Gazelle.

 89

warez

On the other hand, private trackers such as What.CD did oper-
ate a donation system. The reason for this is clear, for “[o]ne of 
the principal ironies of the study of extralegal, apparently non-
monetary exchange systems such as What.CD is the fundamen-
tal necessity of monetary expenses dedicated to maintaining the 
technical infrastructure of the ecology.”96 With costs of approxi-
mately several thousand dollars per month, the infrastructural 
spending  of  private  Bittorrent  trackers  precludes  an  exchange 
strictly  outside  the  financial  sphere,  as  does  the  purchase  and 
ongoing maintenance of topsites in the Scene.

To return to our pyramid, in the contemporary digital piracy 
ecology it is the users who enjoy the game of piracy for its own 
sake  on  private  Bittorrent  trackers  who  begin  to  show  us  the 
motivations of the higher-level actors. Private Bittorrent track-
ers  are  the  point  at  which  the  participatory  but  exclusionary 
prestige regimes of the actual Scene kick in. That said, high-lev-
el Warez Scene figures do not recognize the same motivational 
structure at play in these lower echelons. There is, writes at least 
one study, “a unanimous anti-P2P feeling amongst Scene mem-
bers, with all those interviewed making a distinction between 
‘piracy,’ where reliability, quality, and security are protected by 
the  accountability  of  membership  to  FXP  boards  and  release 
groups, and ‘filesharing,’ seen as an irresponsible quest for ‘free 
content’ where users are not invested in the reciprocal exchange 
of information.”97

Before returning to the top of the pyramid to which this book 
is  dedicated,  there  is  one  further  intermediate  layer  between 
Bittorrent trackers and the Scene, just mentioned, FXP boards. 
These  secretive  boards  were  especially  prominent  early  in  the 
twenty-first century. However, there is barely any scholarly lit-
erature that covers their operations and most of the information 
that I have managed to garner comes from informal reports, such 

96  Durham, “Circulatory Maintenance,” 207.
97  Sockanathan, “Digital Desire and Recorded Music,” 198.

90

setting the scene

as Reddit posts.98 One of the only academic mentions is in Sand-
er  Gellaerts’s  doctoral  thesis  from  Tilburg  University  in  2015. 
This is based on legal cases heard in The Hague in 2013, under 
docket  number  “ECLI:NL:GHDHA:2013:BZ6496”  and  in  Rot-
terdam under docket number “ECLI:NL:RBROT:2011:BR5610” 
in  2011.99  Andrew  Sockanathan’s  doctoral  thesis  from  Gold-
smiths in 2011 likewise contains a section on the history of the 
Scene  that  details  the  operations  of  these  boards.100  Finally, 
Mercè  Molist  Ferrer  also  writes  about  FXP  boards  in  her  2014 
book, Hackstory.es: La Historia Nunca Contada del Underground 
Hacker  en  la  Península  Ibérica.  Ferrer’s  main  sources,  though, 
are  Wikipedia  and  the  Pub-Crackin  101  Tripod  Site,  to  which 
I also refer.101 However, Ferrer also spoke privately with a man 
called Lluís Ridao, who claimed to be a former FXP board mem-
ber who corroborates Gellaerts’s legal analysis. Finally, some of 
the below comes from the “Guide to Internet Piracy” published 
in the Summer 2004 edition of 2600: Hacker Quarterly.102

FXP boards are sites where users post warez on hacked serv-
ers.  With  private  membership  rosters,  the  FXP  board  Scene  is 
in fact even more illegal than almost any of the other levels of 
the  warez  pyramid,  and  it  may  also  be  more  secretive.  Unlike 
the other levels, FXP board participation involves hacking (i.e., 
cracking) into computers to establish them as distribution sys-
tems  without  their  owners’  consent.  Specifically,  FXP  boards 
operate through four classes of users: administrators (who run 
the boards), scanners (who seek out vulnerable servers), hack-

98  u/sk0yern, “R/Networking—What Happened to FXP?,” Reddit, 2016, 
https://www.reddit.com/r/networking/comments/499d1z/what_hap-
pened_to_fxp/.

99  ECLI:NL:RBROT:2011:BR5610, voorheen LJN BR5610, 10/600129–08 

(Rechtbank Rotterdam, August 24, 2011); ECLI:NL:GHDHA:2013:BZ6496, 
voorheen LJN BZ6496, 22–004070–11 (Gerechtshof Den Haag, April 8, 
2013).

100 Sockanathan, “Digital Desire and Recorded Music,” 190.
101 Mercè Molist Ferrer, Hackstory.es: La Historia Nunca Contada del Under-
ground Hacker en la Península Ibérica (Spain: published by the author, 
2014), 103–4.

102 b-bstf, “Guide to Internet Piracy.”

 91

warez

ers (who break into these machines), and fillers (who put warez 
on the servers). Then, there are two models of FXP boards. One 
model is a space where boards would find publicly accessible FTP 
servers that are improperly secured and fill these with warez for 
others to download. The second is one where members would 
hack servers to install their own FTP daemons. The process in 
that  second,  more  common  model,  usually  looks  as  follows. 
First, in consultation with hackers, scanners identify a remotely 
exploitable computer-software vulnerability. Usually, this means 
finding a piece of vulnerable software and then working out how 
remotely  to  identify  that  software.  As  a  hypothetical  example, 
let us say that a remote-control system called “Vulnerable RC” 
contains, by mistake on the part of the programmers, an exploit-
able vulnerability. However, the vulnerability only exists in ver-
sion 1.24 of the software. Scanners would establish a process that 
searched the entire range of Internet Protocol (IP) addresses for 
this software. They would do this by sequentially trying to con-
nect to the default port of this server on every machine address 
on  the  internet,  sometimes  attempting  to  avoid  the  IP  ranges 
of known governmental agencies. Once connected, they would 
only report success if the machine replied with the opening re-
sponse banner, “Welcome to Vulnerable RC v 1.24,” or similar. 
Often these scanning processes, which take a long time, would 
run on remote machines. (After all, there are 4.3 billion theo-
retically accessible IPv4 addresses in the world, even if many of 
these are reserved and not publicly assignable in reality). These 
remote machines were hacked themselves but were found not to 
have sufficient bandwidth to act as a warez store. These remote 
systems for scanning were known as “scanstr0s.”103

Once a scanner has successfully identified a vulnerable serv-
er, they pass the details over to a hacker. Hackers then exploit 
the vulnerable software and install a covert FTP daemon on the 
machine.  As  Gellaerts  puts  it:  “[i]n  the  FXP  board  case,  sus-

103 MantiCore, “AW: SQL scannen lohnt sich das noch?,” raid.rush, May 
3, 2010, https://raidrush.net/threads/sql-scannen-lohnt-sich-das-
noch.711040/.

92

setting the scene

pects were convicted of participating in a criminal organization 
with  the  aim  of  hacking  and  exchanging  copyrighted  works.  
[… T]he Public Prosecution here focused on the forum whose 
purpose was to hack into computer systems to make use of the 
disk  space  and  bandwidth  so  that  copyrighted  works  could 
quickly  be  uploaded  and  downloaded.”104  In  keeping  with  the 
paradoxical  ethical  formulations  of  other  Scene  levels,  there 
appears to have been a code of honor among this class of oth-
erwise highly illegal actors that forbade them from re-hacking 
machines that another Board had already compromised. The re-
sulting FTP site is called a “pubstr0,” which we might speculate 
to mean “public store” in “leet speak,” (more on this later). The 
hacker then posts the empty box to a section on the Board for 
“empty str0s.”

Hackers around the turn of the millennium seemed to favor 
vulnerabilities  on  the  Windows  operating  system.  These  were 
easier to come by and exploit than their Unix and Linux cousins. 
For many years, the most common vulnerabilities were a weak 
Netbios Password that would allow remote execution, a similar 
setup in DameWare NT Utilities (i.e., a popular remote admin-
istration client), or a blank password on a Microsoft SQL Server. 
Once  hackers  had  found  a  vulnerability,  they  would  create  a 
batch file on the remote machine, using the “echo” command. 
This  command  writes  lines  to  a  file.  In  this  case,  the  hacker 
would write a series of lines to a file that instructs the server to 
download new software and to install it. To download the files, 
the hacker would use the Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) 
and  then  use  psexec.exe  (a  lightweight  remote  shell  program) 
to execute this file remotely, which would typically then install 
Serv-U FTP server (an FTP server program) or an IRC bot, giving 
further access to the machine.105

104 Sander Gellaerts, “Watermerken als juridisch bewijsmiddel: Een onder-

zoek naar de effectiviteit van digitale watermerken als juridisch bewijsmid-
del” (PhD diss., Tilburg University, 2015), 188. My translation.

105 b-bstf, “Guide to Internet Piracy.”

 93

warez

Hackers sound like an exotic species of computer literati who 
know what they are doing. It is certainly true that being a hacker 
at this level involves some computational ability that is beyond 
most people’s competence. However, it would be an overstate-
ment to believe these figures to be supremely competent, able 
to  break  into  any  machine  at  will.  Instead,  FXP  board  hackers 
appear to have been opportunists who ride on the back of exist-
ing exploits. They are unlikely to have crafted their own exploits 
and  instead  used  prefabricated  tools  to  crack  into  computers 
that were already vulnerable. Indeed, some of the higher-level 
FXP board hackers may have gained access to rare exploits that 
were not publicly available, giving them an edge on the competi-
tion. But most hackers in this area are better defined as “script 
kiddies” or “tricky kids,” as one source puts it.106 Certainly, being 
a hacker on an FXP board is nowhere close to the technical skill 
required of software crackers in the high-level Scene.

Finally,  fillers  ride  in  at  the  last  minute  and  transfer  pirate 
material across to the hacked servers. Usually, fillers seek boxes 
with large hard-drive capacity and extreme bandwidth. For this 
reason, scanners usually targeted IP ranges that were on high-
speed university links and so forth. Fillers need good warez ac-
cess, which could be from the topsite Scene or other FXP boards. 
As with couriering in the Warez Scene itself, FXP board fillers 
receive praise for beating the competition on speed. Once a filler 
has populated a str0, they post the resulting hacked server to all 
of their Boards, credit the hacker and scanner, and bask in the 
glory of having created a release site.

FXP  boards  usually  ran  on  vBulletin,  an  extensible  (Hy-
pertext  Preprocessor)  PHP-based  internet  forum  system.  The 
boards would generally run a modified version of this software, 
including add-ons such “ShavedApe’s Fxp-Pack 3.0.1,” packaged 
within releases with revealing names such as “Vbulletin_3.6.8_
Pre_Modded_FXP_Edition_v.1.5.” These plugins appear to have 
added  functionality  to  the  base  software,  such  as  monitoring 

106 TonikGin, “IRC XDCC Hacking Exposed,” September 11, 2002, http://www.

madchat.fr/reseau/IRC_XDCC_Hacking_Exposed.htm.

94

setting the scene

the uptime of the posted hacked servers, checking whether the 
login credentials work, and so forth. They also appear to contain 
discoverability features, such as allowing posters to specify the 
contents of the str0, thereby making it possible for the board to 
show  all  servers  that  contain  a  specific  release.  Of  course,  the 
software on which the boards themselves ran was itself pirated. 
Due to the extreme illegality of FXP boards, which involve hack-
ing or cracking on top of regular pirating activities, membership 
of such boards was and is not encouraged among those in the 
actual, high-level Scene.

Nonetheless, the history of FXP boards marks a critical point 
beyond the threshold of private torrenting in the piracy hierar-
chy. Membership of FXP boards was confined to an elite cadre 
of individuals. Competition between boards was fierce. As with 
the  topsite  Warez  Scene,  FXP  board  members  were  bound  by 
a code of secrecy about their boards and a code of honor con-
cerning the rules of participation, and it was not permitted to 
give out information about these sites. Further, sharing pubstr0s 
outside of these boards was frowned upon and would cause a 
user to be banned.

At  the  same  time,  an  entire  culture  on  IRC  developed  pre-
cisely around sharing the fruits of FXP boards. An example of 
this is the subculture in FDFNet’s 00mpah list. FDFNet was an 
IRC  network  that  ran  a  channel,  #warez,  in  the  early  years  of 
the twenty-first century. As the name implies, the theme of this 
channel  was  clear.  The  name  of  the  group  that  ran  this  chan-
nel was “00mpah,” presumably after Roald Dahl’s orientalized, 
candy-production workers in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory 
(1964).107 This channel provided users with a downloadable list 
of  warez  FTP  sites  when  they  entered  the  channel  and  typed 
the command “!list.” Most of the sites on the list were from FXP 
boards.

“The  list”  is  worth  a  brief  detour  here  as  the  sociality  and 
interactions around it work in the same way as does much of the 

107 Urban Dictionary, s.v. “00mpah,” April 9, 2003, https://www.urbandiction-

ary.com/define.php?term=OOmpah.

 95

warez

piracy ecology, including FXP boards themselves. Those in the 
true Scene scorned FXP boards. Those on FXP boards scorned 
the 00mpah list. In both cases this was due to the threat of ex-
posure of secret cultures to public scrutiny which can also carry 
legal penalty. Yet the list also exhibits similar motivational char-
acteristics and rewards as FXP boards and the Scene. First, it is 
notable  that  while  access  to  the  00mpah  list  was  open  to  all, 
non-contributors  experienced  “a  6-hour  time  delayed  version 
of [the] complete list.”108 Access to the full list was available only 
to those who contributed, thereby gamifying participation. The 
list also exhorts users: “Don’t be a leech. Contribute!” and gives 
instructions as to how users can add their own sites to the index 
(“To  add  a  site  /msg  Balthor  SITE  xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx  /dirs  L:  & 
P:”).

Further, as with high-level, warez groups, the 00mpah list put 
out hardware requests with bounty offers attached: “OOmpah is 
also looking for shell accounts to run eggdrop bots from. If you 
can  provide  a  LEGIT  eggable  shell,  please  contact  manoman. 
We will reward you.”109 The emphasis on “LEGIT” here is tell-
ing because it is clear that the operators of the #warez channel 
were keenly aware that they would likely receive hacked shells 
in response to this inquiry. Accepting these could have placed 
them in legal jeopardy. Like the nuking system in the high-lev-
el Scene, covered below in more extensive detail, the 00mpah 
list also had a quality-control mechanism: “[i]f you notice any 
bad sites please help us out by typing ‘!bad sitenum reason’ in 
#warez. Thanks.”110 A team of moderators then worked to verify 
whether the claim for “badness” was accurate.

The list provided an overview of content on each site and a 
rating, but a brief survey of just one of the list outputs clearly 
shows the link to FXP boards. Consider this site entry:

108 00mpah, “Site list (sites.txt),” May 3, 2003.
109 Ibid.
110 Ibid.

96

setting the scene

[92186] <18 Apr 2003 15:37> Rated: 1 rossx

203.251.32.102 / l:ENVY-FXP p:ENVY-FXP port:50000

bridge 3000-eph, chess 2003-eph, fim speedway grand prix-
flt, indiana jack-flt, pet racer-flt, pet soccer-flt

The  site  in  question  here  is  running  on  the  IP  address 
203.251.32.102  on  port  50000.  It  contains  the  games  Bridge 
3000, Chess 2003, and some racing and sports games. Notably, 
though,  the  login  and  password  are  both  “ENVY-FXP.”  While 
no  public  trace  record  remains  of  ENVY  FXP,  apart  from  the 
00mpah  list,  it  is  safe  to  assume  that  ENVY  FXP  was  an  FXP 
board. The high port, the login and password, and the fact that 
the warez resides at the root (“/”) on this server are giveaways of 
its hacked status.111

The 00mpah list also contains public, anonymous FTPs with 
warez hidden on them, that is, the first type of FXP board output 
that I mentioned. Consider the following site entry:

[92636] <20 Apr 2003 09:02> Rated: 1 Ra0uL

137.68.225.12  /leebt/homepage/icon/  /  %;^^;%  /AUX/PUB/ 
l:anonymous p:i.test.ca port:21

discreet  3dsmax  v4.2-tfl,  fifa  2002-flt,  magix  video  deluxe 
v1.02-mage, mechwarrior 4 black knight expansion-flt, shrek 
game land activity-eph

While  this  site  looks  similar  to  the  previous  example,  several 
interesting characteristics are not present in the preceding case. 
First,  the  login  name  here  is  “anonymous.”  The  password  ap-
pears to be simply a generic email address (i.e., the user could 
login to the anonymous account using any password). Most sig-
nificant,  though,  is  the  pathname  that  is  given:  “/leebt/home-

111  Ibid.

 97

warez

page/icon/ / %;^^;% /AUX/PUB/.” Instead of the pirated mate-
rial living at the precise directory where one logs in (“/”), this 
site  hides  its  warez  inside  a  directory  maze.  The  space  in  the 
filename,  the  special  character  “%,”  “^,”  and  “;”  as  well  as  the 
restricted system keyword “AUX” means that it is not possible 
directly to navigate this tree using an FTP client. It is also likely 
that the site will contain hundreds of directories at every level, 
meaning that someone who stumbles upon the site is unlikely 
ever to find this directory by chance. In short, the only way that 
an end-user would find the warez on this server is by knowing 
the exact location where it is stored — a common tactic used by 
FXP boards when filling public servers and that the 00mpah list 
reveals.112

As  noted  before,  the  00mpah  list  and  others  like  it  were 
deemed  “pub  stealers” — ironically,  for  a  culture  that  thrives 
on  taking  the  work  of  others  without  permission.  However,  a 
whole, lower system developed that fed off the illicit activities 
of the FXP board scene. Tools such as user clown’s “locksmith” 
emerged that would allow a user to crack the directory mazes 
on public FTP servers, find other boards’ work, and allow shar-
ing against their wishes.113 Given the commensurate damage of 
computer hacking compounding the existing illegality of mul-
timedia  piracy  and  although  the  FXP  board  scene’s  risks  seem 
higher, I have found very few references to criminal prosecution 
for participation apart from the listed cases above.

However, to close this section on motivations, it should be 
noted that the FXP board scene, like the private torrent tracker 
scene, was highly organized and coordinated. However, hierar-
chies  of  FXP  board  memberships  lent  a  different  motivational 
structure to participation. Forum posts from purported mem-
bers list a vast network of underground FXP boards, including: 
Rosevalley,  MB-FXP,  Riverndale,  Innovation  of  Darkness,  Il-
lusionFXP,  DFF,  Saccon,  Undieable  Warriors,  Enter  by  Force, 
eVolite,  Legends  of  the  Unspoken  Minds,  Voice  of  the  Scene, 

112  Ibid.
113  “Pub-Crackin 101,” PC-FXP, http://pc-fxp.tripod.com/pc101.htm.

98

setting the scene

VoCHT,  WDRC,  equinox,  Aurora,  Tension,  Peace’n’Warez, 
Jinxed,  Sentinels  of  Light,  Skilled,  ph0enix,  UnderGround 
Council,  Apocalypse,  DupeFXP,  Evolution,  eMOTiONDVD, 
iGNiTiON, TMC StormFXP, Spuitkak-FXP, and others.114

It  can  be  assumed  that  FXP  board  Sceners  participated  in 
their  activities  with  the  same  zeal  and  abstract  motivation  as 
their analogs in the topsite Scene. It is clear that if one simply 
wanted access to the latest pirated materials, there are far easier 
ways to go about this than to join an FXP board. The latter in-
volves learning its rules and codes of conduct and engaging in 
highly illegal scanning and hacking activities. Instead, it seems 
evident that those who participated in FXP board cultures sought 
status and respect among their peers. Who would be the best-
known hacker? Who had access to more elusive exploits? Which 
scanners  could  consistently  turn  up  new,  fast,  and  exploitable 
ranges? And which fillers had genuine courier access to topsites, 
that would then allow them to filter down their warez from the 
topsite scene? Far from being an effort to ensure the broadest, 
public  dissemination  of  pirated  material,  the  FXP  board  scene 
should  be  considered  another  closed  enclave,  driven  by  elitist 
principles rather than any altruistic benefit. It is, then, hard to 
make the analogy of the “digital commons” work here, as it was 
hard to see this at many other levels of the piracy pyramid. In 
this  sense,  while  many  wish  to  romanticize  digital  piracy  and 
to view it as a liberatory phenomenon, piracy goes through the 
same cycles of enclosure as any other digital space.

underground craft

The  etymology,  history,  and  development  of  piracy  and  pirate 
imagery  are  far  more  convoluted  than  its  most  contemporary 
appropriation  by  digital  copyright  lobbyists  can  countenance. 
As Gary Hall notes, the etymological root of “pirate” in ancient 
Greece is one where “the pirate is someone who tries, tests, teas-

114 Bliendbos, “Zijn hier ook nog ouwe fxp-ers ?,” FOK!forum, November 19, 

2016, https://forum.fok.nl/topic/1831163/1/999.

 99

warez

es, and troubles, as well as attacks.”115 I here take from Hall’s work 
his broader sense in which piracy “is not opposed to capitalism” 
but is instead “fundamental to it,” embracing the negative cri-
tique of piracy’s replicative potential.116 Models of capital repli-
cate themselves within subcultures of digital piracy.

When most people think of digital piracy, they think of the 
public-facing  sources  that  I  have  just  covered — the  popular 
manifestations  and  accessible  incarnations  of  home  copyright 
violation. However, this is a poor reflection of the Scene’s sub-
merged  and  elite  culture  that  has  operated  on  a  secretive  and 
hierarchical basis of suppliers, couriers, release groups, and top-
sites  for  several  decades.117  Even  existing  books  that  detail  the 
cultures of internet piracy in quite some depth sometimes mis-
understand, mischaracterize, and overlook this high-level, elite 
core. For instance, John Gantz and Jack B. Rochester’s Pirates of 
the Digital Millennium: How the Intellectual Property Wars Dam-
age Our Personal Freedoms, Our Jobs, and the World Economy 
runs to 294 pages. The text is high on didactic questions: “[w]hat 
did you think about downloading copyrighted media when you 
began  reading  this  chapter?  […]  What  new  information  have 
you gleaned from reading it?”118 But this work, like many others, 
is low on coverage of the inner mechanisms of piracy, its supply 
chains, its political economies, and its aesthetics.119

Before  moving  to  detail  its  actual  workings,  in  this  penul-
timate section of my second chapter I want to set out how the 
upper echelon of the piracy pyramid is a site of skill and craft. 
These may sound odd terms to apply to those who spend their 
time working illegally to disseminate material to which they do 

115  Hall, Pirate Philosophy, xiv.
116 Ibid., 140.
117  Virginia Crisp, Film Distribution in the Digital Age: Pirates and Profession-

als (London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2017), 105–6.

118  John Gantz and Jack B. Rochester, Pirates of the Digital Millennium: How 
the Intellectual Property Wars Damage Our Personal Freedoms, Our Jobs, 
and the World Economy (Upper Saddle River: Prentice Hall, 2005), 88.
119 There are a few sporadic mentions of Scene activities in this book but for 

the most part they go unmentioned. Ibid., 211.

100

setting the scene

not own the copyright. However, until we grasp the consider-
able level of proficiency in this space, we will fail to understand 
why individuals choose to participate in these activities across 
both technical and artistic zones. Without this distinction, we 
will also incorrectly posit a simple lineage between those work-
ing to release pirated material and those who merely consume 
such outputs on social media.

While  Chapter  Three  examines  in  detail  the  technical  in-
frastructures  and  social  roles  of  individuals  within  the  Warez 
Scene,  a  few  upfront  examples  will  demonstrate  the  multiple 
levels of expertise present at the top of this pyramid. Take, for 
instance,  the  crackers — the  individuals  tasked  with  removing 
the protection systems on pirated games and apps in the space 
of the software piracy Scene. To understand the skill and craft 
involved  in  the  cracking  process,  one  must  first  know  a  little 
about  how  computer  programs  work.  Most  code  for  contem-
porary  games  and  software  applications  is  written  in  a  high-
level  language  such  as  C.  Computer  programming  languages, 
like C, allow programmers to write code more comprehensibly 
than lower-level languages, such as assembly. For instance, the 
C statement “int x = 133;” assigns the number “133” to an integer 
(“int”)  variable  called  “x.”  However,  computers  cannot  under-
stand the instructions in the forms given in languages such as C. 
Instead, they work on lower-level instruction sets that might, for 
instance, be equivalent to: “move the number 133 into a memory 
location” (“mov DWORD PTR [rbp-0xc],0x85”). It should in-
stantly be evident that the C incarnation of this statement is far 
easier to read and to understand than is the assembly instruc-
tion, which is, in fact, not even itself the lowest level language.

When programmers write their code in C or other high-level 
languages, it must be translated into an executable format. This 
is a process called compilation. This usually takes the form of 
producing a byte or object code that can be switched back to a 
set of assembly instructions, but that cannot easily be retranslat-
ed back into the original language, C. That is, the version of the 
program that will be distributed to users can, albeit with some 

 101

warez

difficulty, be turned back into assembly language. But it cannot 
be translated back into the more user-friendly form of C.

Crackers aim to modify the logic of program flow to circum-
vent  copy  control  measures.  A  typical,  digital  rights  manage-
ment protection routine might be to evaluate a set of conditions 
(e.g., “are the checksums on the binaries as they should be?,” “is 
the  serial  code  valid?,”  “is  anyone  else  in  the  world  using  the 
same  serial  code?”)  and  then  to  switch  execution  to  the  anti-
piracy code. That is, the code will follow this type of logic:

If [GAME HAS BEEN PIRATED], GO TO 2: [ANTI-PIRACY FUNC-
TION]

ELSE, GO TO 1: [NORMAL EXECUTION]

1: [NORMAL EXECUTION]

2: [ANTI-PIRACY FUNCTION]

Typically, this logic will be extremely convoluted and made de-
liberately difficult to understand. Crackers seek to modify this 
logic so that, regardless of whether the “If [GAME HAS BEEN PI-
RATED]” statement evaluates to true, it is always the “1: [NORMAL 
EXECUTION]”  function  that  is  run,  rather  than  the  anti-piracy 
function.

However, to make this modification, crackers only have ac-
cess to the compiled version of the code, not the original C ver-
sion.120 This means that they must work to understand the code 
at the lowest possible of levels and then patch this version for 
general  consumption.  Even  worse,  anti-piracy  detection  often 
seeks to ascertain whether this type of reverse-engineering and 
patching has been performed, which I cover more extensively 
in Chapter Five. Therefore, crackers must be aware of the un-

120 Sigi Goode and Sam Cruise, “What Motivates Software Crackers?” Journal 

of Business Ethics 65, no. 2 (May 2006): 174.

102

setting the scene

intended consequences of modifying binary executables. Every 
change that they make risks triggering another booby trap.

This  is  all  to  say  that  being  a  cracker  in  a  release  group  is 
an incredibly demanding job. As David Tetzlaff puts it, “[t]here 
aren’t that many true crackers” and “[f]or every true cracker or 
hacker there are countless numbers of mere pirates.”121 Crackers 
are in short supply because cracking is one of the most challeng-
ing  programming  tasks  that  it  is  possible  to  imagine:  to  work 
against the flow with a decompiled binary file to enable an al-
ternative  desired  execution  flow.  As  with  other  types  of  com-
puter  information  security  roles,  this  type  of  breakage  is  akin 
to an incredibly elaborate puzzle that the cracker must solve to 
succeed. The escalating war between ever-more elaborate forms 
of Digital Rights Management (DRM) and the growing skill of 
crackers makes for a fascinating standoff. It also demonstrates to 
some extent the intellectual respect, if not legal or moral respect, 
that we should accord to such individuals.

Likewise,  one  might  wish  to  consider  the  operational  skill 
of siteops. Perhaps the number one condition desired by those 
participating in the Warez Scene is that law enforcement can-
not  detect  their  activity.  Siteops,  therefore,  deploy  a  range  of 
technologies and social mechanisms to protect themselves from 
the police, covered more thoroughly in the next chapter. These 
include addlines that specify the ident protocol, which will tie a 
user to a particular IP address; site “bouncers” that mask or cloak 
the true IP address of a warez topsite; and, of course, generally 
ensuring best practices for information security (e.g., patching 
software on the server, using encryption protocols, and so on). 
Siteops, although slightly separate from hardware providers, 
must also work to ensure that their sites are of a high techni-
cal capacity. In the period studied by this book and surfaced in 
the DeFacto2 archive, gigabit symmetrical connections were the 
norm with multiple terabytes of storage space in Redundant Ar-

121  David Tetzlaff, “Yo-Ho-Ho and a Server of Warez,” in The World Wide Web 
and Contemporary Cultural Theory: Magic, Metaphor, Power, eds. Andrew 
Herman and Thomas Swiss (New York: Routledge, 2000), 107.

 103

warez

ray of Independent Disks (RAID) configurations. As this type of 
hardware, particularly the high-capacity network connections, 
was hard to come by at a reasonable price, many topsites resided 
on  university  premises  where  this  infrastructure  was  readily 
available.122 For instance, Pirates with Attitude (PWA)’s flagship 
topsite ran at the University of Sherbrook, undoubtedly without 
permission.123 This in turn meant that siteops required extensive 
skills to mask the site’s presence on campus from the watchful 
eyes of legitimate systems administrators.124

As will become apparent in Chapter Six, siteops are not al-
ways  successful  in  keeping  their  activities  hidden.  Hence,  the 
stakes are high in this game. After all, the coordinated nature of 
the Warez Scene usually pushes its activities into the category of 
criminal conspiracy to violate copyright rather than mere civil 
wrongs of copyright violations against individuals and corpora-
tions. The prison sentences for such conspiracies can be lengthy, 
so the skill and craft of siteops are a matter of crucial import. 
Furthermore, Sceners routinely shame insecure sites, and a neg-
ative reputation for information security is likely to lose the site 
affiliates.

The crafts and skills of the Scene are also what make stud-
ies like this possible. Archives such as DeFacto2 exist because 
participants seek credit for their work and ability. Were there no 
skill and no seeking of credit, it is unlikely that the Warez Scene 
would be as known as it is.

122 Huizing and Wal, “Explaining the Rise and Fall of the Warez MP3 Scene.”
123 Goldman, “Warez Trading and Criminal Copyright Infringement,” 25.
124 The tell-tale sign of a topsite on campus is short, sporadic bursts of high-
speed data transfers both incoming and outgoing from a limited subset 
of IP addresses. However, as bandwidth capacity has increased and P2P 
networks have become increasingly common, in the period between that 
covered by the documentation to which I have access and the contempo-
rary Warez Scene, it is not clear whether or not such sites have become 
harder to detect.

104

Infrastructures of the Scene

In  Chapter  Two,  I  examined  the  portions  of  the  piracy  world 
that are not the Warez Scene. In a more positive vein, this chap-
ter now turns to outline the systems that do make up this highest 
level of the piracy pyramid. In reverse engineering the functions 
of various elements of the Scene, I explore the set of technical 
infrastructures that underpins the social interactions constitut-
ing this alternative reality game. Infrastructures are a set of in-
terlocking technical architectures. Yet what is infrastructure at 
its core and how does it help us to understand the Scene? How 
do we recognize it? And how might we study it?

In her well-known article, “Th  e Ethnography of Infrastruc-
ture,” the sociologist Susan Leigh Star famously made a call to 
study infrastructures, which at the same time was a call to study 
“boring  things.”1  In  this  phrasing  Star  is  of  course  being  a  lit-
tle  coy.  Th  e  fi rst  examples  that  she  gives  are  the  International 
Classifi cation  of  Diseases  (ICD)  and  the  telephone  book,  both 
of which can seem mundane and ordinary or even “boring” but 
both of which can tell us several interesting things. For instance, 
Star points out that a telephone book reveals a great deal about 
the  demographics  of  an  area  through  how  businesses  present 
themselves,  for  example,  restaurants  and  ethnicity.  Th  e  ICD  is 

1  Susan Leigh Star, “Th  e Ethnography of Infrastructure,” American Behavio-

ral Scientist 43, no. 3 (1999): 377.

 105

warez

likewise essential and exciting because it shows precisely what 
is considered a disease or illness and what lies outside of that 
purview.  Given  the  degree  of  controversy  around  medical  di-
agnoses  of  psychiatric  complaints  and  volumes  such  as  the 
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), 
Star  knows  that  the  ICD  tells  us  a  lot  too  about  that  most  so-
cially  studied  of  fields:  medicine.  While  these  objects  appear 
tedious and routinized — “boring things” — we can learn things 
through their study.

The  same  is  true  of  the  software  and  hardware  infrastruc-
tures  of  the  Scene.  These  are  the  architectures  that,  although 
impressive  in  themselves,  exist  merely  to  support  the  social 
structures of the Scene. However, they form the core interface 
point that most individuals have when interacting with this un-
derground piracy network. Indeed, the software and hardware 
facilities run by Scene operatives can be described according to 
the taxonomy that Star sets out in her article. We can describe 
elements of the Scene in terms of their

•  Embeddedness: the servers and networks are “sunk into and 
inside of other structures.” This is especially the case with the 
ways in which existing, public architectures are often repur-
posed  in  the  Scene,  such  as  university  high-speed  connec-
tions or public Internet Relay Chat (IRC) networks, running 
private chat channels for Scene activities.

•  Transparency:  the  infrastructure  that  “invisibly  supports” 

the tasks of Scene operatives.

•  Reach or scope: these infrastructures have “reach beyond a 
single event or one-site practice.” The diversity of materials 
disseminated  among  Scene  members,  ranging  from  mu-
sic, to films, to software, to games often comes with differ-
ent requirements from the infrastructure, which is adaptive 
to such needs. The generic model of File Transfer Protocol 

106

infrastructures of the scene

(FTP) servers is one that can easily be repurposed when new 
media formats come along.

•  Learned  as  part  of  membership:  communities  of  practice, 
such as the Scene, take their infrastructures for granted. No 
member of the Scene will be willing, in most circumstances, 
to explain how things work to a “n00b” (i.e., a “newbie” or 
someone who has just entered the space). Either you know, 
or you don’t. Of course, this is not actually strictly the case or 
nobody new would ever join. It simply means that the level 
of tacit knowledge among Scene members is great and trans-
mission takes place through private channels of mentorship 
alongside observational practices.

•  Links  with  conventions  of  practice:  there  is  a  type  of  path 
dependency on past conventions. Star gives the example of 
the QWERTY keyboard but the naming scheme for Scene re-
leases  (e.g.,  “Aeon_Zen-Inveritas-WEB-2019-ENTiTLED”) 
is a good example of something that developed over time but 
that  has  now  become  established  practice,  for  reasons  that 
will  become  clear.  It  appears  very  hard  to  change  existing 
Scene practices. Once norms of practice have been embed-
ded  and  validated,  they  become  widespread  and  inflexible. 
A  good  example  of  this,  to  which  I  will  turn,  is  the  devel-
opment  of  custom  FTP  daemons  in  the  earlier  years  of  the 
Scene, later replaced by the widespread adoption of glftpd, a 
piece of server software.

•  Embodiment  of  standards:  infrastructures  work  with  other 
infrastructures through common interfaces. As we will see, 
the  FTP  servers  of  the  Scene  are  no  different,  and,  while 
sites  isolate  themselves  from  one  another  for  security  rea-
sons, they also take advantage of the File eXchange Protocol 
(FXP) hack to allow direct transmission between servers. The 
rulesets that form the standards for each type of release (ana-
lyzed in more detail in Chapter Four) are further evidence of 
the importance of standardization for Scene practices.

 107

warez

•  Becomes  visible  upon  breakdown:  the  invisibility  of  infra-
structure fades away when it breaks. The legal busts of the 
Scene are good examples of the failures of Scene infrastruc-
ture  but  also  its  social  patterns.  Sites  that  have  unreliable 
uptime or that behave erratically reveal infrastructural fault 
lines that draw attention to the quotidian nature of much of 
the technical architecture.2

Bearing these points in mind throughout this chapter, the in-
frastructural  components  of  the  Warez  Scene  to  which  I  will 
now turn can be subdivided into several discrete levels: topsites, 
IRC  channels,  bouncer  systems,  and  command-and-control 
systems.  Throughout,  I  will  refer  to  the  characteristics  of  the 
Scene’s infrastructures toward which Star’s framework points in 
order to understand how the technical components of the Scene 
facilitate its operation. As a point of note, most of the specifica-
tions  that  I  detail  come  from  around  the  turn  of  the  millen-
nium, the year 2000, gleaned from the DeFacto2 archive. It is 
likely  and  possible  that  many  specific  technological  elements 
are now changed and work under different systems.

topsite architectures

A topsite (“site”) is a high-bandwidth (by now at least gigabit), 
high-storage  (tens  to  hundreds  of  terabytes)  FTP  site  with  af-
filiated  release  groups.  Topsites  are  usually  named  and  also 
given a two to three-letter abbreviation that identifies the site 
with greater safety than the full name (e.g., TWH is “The Wolves 
House”).3  The  abbreviation  is,  in  some  cases,  phonetic  rather 
than  an  acronym  (e.g.,  SLR  is  “The  Cellar”).4  Mentioning  the 

2  All references ibid.
3  For an example of site name abbreviations see CWS, “Courier Weektop 
ScoreCard 001 (cws001.txt),” February 9, 1998, DeFacto2; TWH, “The 
Wolves House Topsite (TWH-the.wolves.house.1999.12.30.nfo),” Decem-
ber 30, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

4  SLR, “The Cellar Topsite (SLR-the.cellar.1998.11.08.nfo),” November 8, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

108

infrastructures of the scene

full name or even sometimes just the abbreviation of a site to a 
user not on the site is usually an offence that will incur deletion 
(“deluser”).5  Topsites  are  the  core  infrastructure  of  the  Warez 
Scene. They are the places where pirate artifacts are released and 
traded. They are the archives that contain the files and the his-
tory of the Scene. Topsites are the sacred spaces of this world. 
It is hard to get into them, and it is hard to keep one’s account.

Before  the  FTP  era  of  the  Scene,  pirates  would  dial  in  to  a 
particular Bulletin Board System (BBS) site to upload or down-
load  material  and  communicate  with  others.6  Such  BBS  sites 
have been labeled the origins of virtual community by the Com-
munication Studies scholar Fred Turner, and they provided the 
first truly virtual social space, rooted in the background of the 
American 1960s counterculture.7 Despite this framing, it is also 
clear that the BBS scene was geographically dispersed, with seg-
mented  underground  cultures  in  countries  as  diverse  as  Italy, 
Portugal,  and  Uganda.8  Although  BBSs  were  a  revolution  in 
terms  of  international  communication,  such  systems  also  had 
the disadvantage of monopolizing a telephone line while a user 
was connected. This exclusivity made connecting to more than 
one board a painful process.9 The switch to FTP took place as a 
move  to  embrace  the  interconnectedness  of  the  internet  dur-
ing the general demise of BBS in the period between 1994 and 

5 

“Topsite Rules,” ReScene, 2020, http://rescene.wikidot.com/topsite-
rules#toc4.

6  Andrew Sockanathan, “Digital Desire and Recorded Music: OiNK, Mne-
motechnics and the Private BitTorrent Architecture” (PhD diss., Gold-
smiths, University of London, 2011), 175–76; Patryk Wasiak, “Telephone 
Networks, BBSes, and the Emergence of the Transnational ‘Warez Scene’,” 
History and Technology 35, no. 2 (2019): 177–94.

7  Fred Turner, “Where the Counterculture Met the New Economy: The 

WELL and the Origins of Virtual Community,” Technology and Culture 46, 
no. 3 (2005): 485–512.

8  “International Scenes,” Phrack Magazine, January 9, 1996, http://phrack.

org/issues/65/15.html.

9  Douglas Thomas, Hacker Culture (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota 

Press, 2002), 118.

 109

warez

1996.10 Ben Garrett, the maintainer of the DeFacto2 archive, de-
scribes how the BBS Scene faded after the closure of New York’s 
Park Central system in 1996. This central communication board 
was, as he puts it, “the ring and the referee” of deciding which 
groups had won a particular race to release a piece of software, a 
phrasing that chimes with my later analysis of the quasi-judicial 
nature of Scene rule documents.11

It is beyond the scope and remit of this book to give a com-
prehensive  history  of  the  BBS  pirate  Scene,  which  has  already 
been covered elsewhere.12 Importantly for the subject at hand, 
from 1994 to 1996, there emerged two parallel Scenes, with the 
BBS  Scene  existing  alongside  the  emergent  internet  Scene.  As 
Garrett describes it, this bifurcation led to challenges for the of-
ficial status of releases. With the parallel Scenes in operation, a 
confusing situation emerged “where there was one group win-
ning the release on the BBS scene and another winning on the 
internet.”13 This duality was unsustainable and, after Operation 
Cyber  Strike  shut  down  a  number  of  significant  BBS  sites  (an 
event that I cover in Chapter Six), the Scene decided to transfer 
to a series of secretive internet FTP servers.14

The rival standard into which the Scene could have branched 
is the ubiquitous Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and Hy-
pertext Markup Language (HTML) combination that forms the 
contemporary web. That is, the Scene could have become based 
on  the  web.  As  was  covered  in  Chapter  Two,  the  FXP  board 
Scene went in this direction, although this subset nonetheless 
uses  the  web-facing  component  to  share  hacked  FTP  sites.  In 
many ways, this structure makes sense as a path from BBS sites: 
the logical successor of BBSs is online forums. For instance, the 

10  Wasiak, “Telephone Networks, BBSes, and the Emergence of the Transna-

tional ‘Warez Scene’.”

11  Ben Garrett, “Online Software Piracy of the Last Millennium,” April 27, 
2004, 4, DeFacto2, http://www.defacto2.net/file/download/a53981.

12  See, for instance, Wasiak, “Telephone Networks, BBSes, and the Emergence 

of the Transnational ‘Warez Scene’.”

13  Garrett, “Online Software Piracy of the Last Millennium,” 4.
14  Ibid.

110

infrastructures of the scene

leading provider of forum software is called vBulletin. At first, 
some warez topsites likely did move to HTML forums, but, for 
protocol reasons, FTP won out. While one lower portion of the 
piracy world moved over onto internet forum boards, albeit still 
using FTP, the other, the portion to which this book is dedicated, 
instead went down the route of FTP and IRC.

In any case, FTP proved to be a valuable tool for the Scene. 
Given that the nature of the Scene involves the transfer of files, 
a protocol that is designed purely for file transfer made sense. 
Indeed, basic knowledge and understanding of the FTP protocol 
are critical to comprehend the Scene’s transfer systems and “rac-
ing,”  covered  below.  In  turn,  understanding  FTP  also  requires 
some  comprehension  of  network  socket  communications, 
which I will roughly attempt to convey here.

In  the  TCP/IPv4  protocol,  on  which  most  of  the  internet 
operates, every server (i.e., computer) is assigned an address.15 
These  generally  take  the  following  form:  192.168.0.1.16  Server 
software “listens” on a port on these addresses, so a web server 
might listen on port 80. This would mean that if I connected to 
192.168.0.1 at port 80, I could expect to find a web server. FTP is 
implemented by FTP server software (i.e., a “daemon”). As there 
are 4,294,967,296 possible IPv4 addresses in the world (though 
many  are  reserved  for  special  purposes  and  a  figure  that  has 
been  drastically  superseded  by  the  340  trillion  trillion  trillion 
addresses  in  IPv6),  and  as  each  IPv4  address  has  65,535  ports, 
FTP  on  the  internet  seemed  an  excellent  way  for  the  Scene  to 
hide its activities while allowing those in the know to connect. 

15  Some servers share addresses and use translation technologies such as 
Network Address Translation (NAT) to route the packet to the correct 
machine on a local network, but for the purposes of simple explanation, 
the generalization that “every machine on the internet has an IP address” is 
fine.

16  The address that I use as an example here is in a reserved range for local 

networks. That is, the 192 range that I here use as an example can in reality 
only be used for local addresses and not on the global internet. Another 
example of a reserved IPv4 address is 127.0.0.1, the address that a computer 
can always use to refer to itself.

 111

warez

Finding Scene operations by chance, Sceners reasoned, would 
be like locating a needle in a haystack.

FTP was born in 1971 in RFC 114, the “Request for Comment” 
system that the Internet Engineering Task Force uses to discuss 
new proposed specifications.17 It died, to some extent, in 2020, 
when major web browsers deprecated support for the protocol.18 
FTP, as it exists today, uses a command channel to specify client-
server  interactions  and  various  data  channels  to  transfer  the 
contents of files. The protocol begins, as with all network opera-
tions, with a server daemon listening on a port. In conventional 
or legitimate FTP servers, this port is usually 21, but for stealth, 
Scene topsites usually run on much higher port numbers, mak-
ing it harder to guess their location. Next, a client connects and 
is presented with a banner message while the server then awaits 
authentication. A typical connection and authentication process 
for a regular FTP daemon and client might look as follows:

Server: 220 FTPD ready 
Client: USER mpeve
Server: 331 Password required for mpeve. 
Client: PASS password
Server: 230 User mpeve logged in.

In the File Transfer Protocol, responses are prefixed by a num-
ber that indicates the server’s state. This makes it easier for cli-
ents to ensure that they issue the correct directives at the right 
time. Each digit in the response indicates a different status. The 
leftmost digit, for instance, indicates the success or failure of the 
command (1xx = positive preliminary reply; 2xx = positive com-
pletion reply; 3xx = positive intermediate reply, etc.). The mid-
dle  digit  shows  to  what  the  status  pertains  (e.g.,  x3x  indicates 

17  A.K. Bhushan, “File Transfer Protocol,” Internet Engineering Task Force, 

April 16, 1971, https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc114.

18  Catalin Cimpanu, “Chrome 87 Released with Fix for NAT Slipstream At-

tacks, Broader FTP Deprecation,” ZDNet, November 17, 2020, https://www.
zdnet.com/article/chrome-87-released-with-fix-for-nat-slipstream-attacks-
broader-ftp-deprecation/.

112

infrastructures of the scene

that the status relates to authentication and identification). The 
final digit specifies the precise status. Hence, the “331” response 
is a positive, intermediate reply pertaining to authentication and 
means the server needs the password for the specified account.
When a user wishes to transfer a file to or from an FTP server, 
they  use  a  set  of  commands  that  instruct  the  server  either  to 
listen for a data connection or to initiate a data connection to 
a remote system. These two commands are called, respectively, 
“PASV”  (passive  mode)  and  “PORT”  (active  mode).  In  PASV 
mode,  the  server  listens  on  an  additional  port  and  returns  a 
response  to  the  user’s  client,  telling  them  what  this  port  is.  A 
typical response to the PASV command might read “227 Enter-
ing Passive Mode (192,168,0,1,216,4).” This would mean that the 
server was now listening on the IP address 192.168.0.1 on port 
55300. (For reasons that are too complicated to explain, the port 
is calculated from the last two digits through this formula: 216 x 
256 + 4.) Usually, the client would then connect to this address 
and  port  and  begin  receiving  or  sending  data  on  this  second 
channel.

FTP can also work the other way around. The active PORT 
command  is  the  inverse  of  PASV.  In  this  case,  the  client  lis-
tens  on  a  port  (let  us  use  55300  again)  and  tells  the  server  to 
connect to its own address. So let us say that a client’s address 
was 192.168.0.2. A typical PORT command might read, “PORT 
192,168,0,2,216,4.” Once this command has been issued, the FTP 
server will attempt to connect to 192.168.0.2 on port 55300 and 
then send or receive data on that channel.

As noted, usually in FTP, when a PASV or PORT command 
is  opened,  the  client  either  connects  to  the  server  to  send  or 
receive data, or the server connects to the client. That is, nor-
mally,  the  parties  using  the  data  connection  will  be  the  same 
as  on  the  command  channel: The  server  and  the  client.  How-
ever, although some servers do enforce this, ensuring that only 
an authorized party can connect, much of the Warez Scene ex-
ploits a vulnerability here to enact high-speed transfers between 
FTP servers without needing to download the file to the client 

 113

warez

machine and then upload it to the second site. This site-to-site 
transfer is called File eXchange Protocol (FXP).

How does this work? The simple answer is that a client can 
instruct  one  server  to  listen  (PASV)  and  then  issues  a  PORT 
command to another server telling it to connect to that server. 
In this way, two remote FTP servers can directly transfer files to 
one another. Consider the following example situation: we have 
a client (192.168.0.1), a server (192.168.0.2), and another server 
(192.168.0.3). The client connects to both servers and, at the ap-
propriate moment, issues the following commands:

Client to Server 1: PASV
Server 1: 227 Entering Passive Mode (192,168,0,2,216,4)
Client to Server 2: PORT 192,168,0,2,216,4
Server 2: 200 PORT command successful.

When  the  client  then  initiates  a  transfer  command  (“RETR” 
[retrieve] or “STOR” [store]), the servers will connect to each 
other, rather than to the client, and the file will be transferred 
from server to server.

Why  is  this  important?  Warez  topsites  are  extremely  high-
bandwidth  servers.  They  have  powerful  connections  that  far 
outstrip the capacity of clients using residential internet systems 
(see the Appendix for known hardware links among a range of 
millennial-era  topsites,  indicating  far-above-average  connec-
tion speeds, usually of the “T1,” “T3,” “OC48” types and other 
high-capacity lines). The user class called “couriers” or “traders,” 
descended from the brokers of the antecedent BBS Scene, “race” 
releases  from  one  site  to  another  in  exchange  for  download 
credit.19 To do so, couriers must transfer the files in new releases 
as fast as they can (and before others) from servers that already 
have the release to those that do not, provided the rules permit 
the release on the destination. Were this conducted by down-
loading each file to the local machine, using a home connection, 

19  “A Day in the Life of a Warez Broker,” Phrack Magazine, 1995, http://phra-

ck.org/issues/47/20.html.

114

infrastructures of the scene

and then uploading it to the second server, the race would un-
fold at tortoise pace. Instead, the high-speed, high-octane na-
ture of trading from site-to-site is enhanced using FXP.20

That  said,  some  couriers  instead  use  a  method  called  shell 
trading — using high-speed remote boxes to move the files. This 
consists of using their local storage as an intermediary and then 
uploading to multiple sites.21 This latter method has the advan-
tage,  first,  of  using  download  credits  only  on  a  single  source, 
and second, of leaving slots open on other sites. That is, in tra-
ditional sites, one may not download using two accounts at the 
same time. FXP locks a download slot from a site. Hence, if one 
is  trying  to  upload  to  multiple  sites,  there  are  several  ways  of 
doing this, but shell-trading is the most efficient in leaving slots 
open (see Figures 3 and 4). Nonetheless, FXP couriering is still 
an  efficient  manipulation  of  the  FTP  standard  as  couriers  can 
chain their sites together; for instance, in Figure 3, it would be 
possible to move the file from Site 1 to Site 2, then to Site 3, and 
so on. However, the speed at which races take place means that 
the shell trader who can lock the files during the transfer, using 
a shell trade, will have a distinct advantage.

Scene  servers  leverage  other  enhanced  features  of  the  FTP 
protocol.  For  instance,  Scene  FTP  servers  are  additionally  se-
cured through multiple levels of authentication and authoriza-
tion,  on  top  of  that  provided  by  regular  FTP.  The  foremost  of 
these is the “AUTH TLS” extension to FTP specified in RFC 2228 
(another  Request  for  Comment  document)  to  provide  trans-
port layer security to the site’s command channel.22 This means 

20  For instance, see lester, “The Art of Good Trading,” Netmonkey Weekly 

Report (nwr28.txt), December 22, 1998, DeFacto2.

21  See Lord Rameses, “Interview with hodd of VOLiTiON,” Courier Weektop 
Scorecard (CwS-116.txt), September 3, 2000, DeFacto2; Lord Rameses, 
“Interview with Seraph of XCRYPT,” Courier Weektop Scorecard (CwS-118.
txt), September 17, 2000, DeFacto2.

22  Steven J. Lunt, “FTP Security Extensions,” Internet Engineering Task 

Force, October 1997, https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2228. See also greyline, 
“glftpd-LNX-2.04_1.0.1e-glFTPD TLS README (2+deb7u3_x86_docs/
README.TLS.txt),” mewbies.com, 2014, http://mewbies.com/glftpd-LNX-
2.04_1.0.1e-2+deb7u3_x86_docs/README.TLS.txt.

 115

warez

Figure 3. FXP showing single site to site transfer. 

Figure 4. Shell trading showing transfer to multiple sites from 
single source.

116

infrastructures of the scene

that all communication between the server and the client is en-
crypted and cannot be intercepted (i.e., end-to-end encryption). 
The same is true of the data channel in FXP transfers between 
servers,  which  clients  can  initiate  through  the  “PROT”  com-
mand,  ensuring  that  data  transferred  between  sites  cannot  be 
intercepted.

Scene servers and members additionally use the IDENTD pro-
tocol  alongside  IP  authentication  to  identify  users.23  This  pro-
tocol allows the user’s identification by a string of text in front 
of  their  IP  address.  So,  for  instance,  my  ident  might  be  “mar-
tin@192.168.0.1.” The “martin” part is specified by the daemon 
listening  on  my  IP  address  on  port  113  for  incoming  requests. 
Specifically, the IDENT protocol distinguishes between users on a 
single machine or network who share an IP address. So let us say 
that I share the IP 192.168.0.1 with my brother, Richard. When I 
connect, my IDENTD tells the server that it is me, “martin,” and 
not “richard,” who is connecting, which serves as an additional, 
albeit potentially spoofable, level of authentication. Topsites will 
typically not send a 220 banner until a user with a correct IDENT 
and IP connects, thereby concealing that an FTP server exists at 
an address and port. Evidence for the use of IDENTD is prevalent 
in Scene magazines, such as the interview with Redbone of RTS 
in the Courier Weektop Scorecard issue 130. Here it is noted that 
tight IDENT and IP-based authentication are required and that 
“lame” (i.e., insecure) “ip masks like *@xxx.xxx* and ident@xxx.
xxx.* are no longer accepted.”24 Once a user has passed the IP 
mask check and the IDENTD check, and it is known that there 
is a possible user matching, the server initiates a standard FTP 

23  For an instance of mistaken identity using the ident protocol, see Rebel 
Chicken, “That Wasn’t You?” Reality Check Network (RCN-20.txt), 1996, 
DeFacto2; Brian Baskin et al., Netcat Power Tools, ed. Jan Kanclirz (Burl-
ington: Syngress Publishing, Inc, 2008), 119.

24  skimp, “Interview with Redbone of RTS,” Courier Weektop Scorecard 

(CwS-130.txt), December 16, 2000, DeFacto2.

 117

warez

authentication process, which then places the user in the appro-
priate role-based authorization.25

When users are invited to a site, they must give the site oper-
ator or group administrator their “addline.” This command will 
add the user to the site, specifying their login name, password, 
and ident. In theory, common security precautions should per-
tain to addlines. For instance, users are encouraged to have only 
a  temporary  password  in  their  addline  that  they  later  change. 
According  to  many  of  the  “Scene  notice”  packs  that  contain 
warning announcements, the reason for this is the presence of 
“addline  stealers.”  One  of  these  documents,  for  instance,  cau-
tions  that  “when  someone  just  pm  you  to  add  you  to  his  leet 
gigabit.nl [a site in the Netherlands with a gigabit connection] 
or something like that, he just want your addline.”26 These doc-
uments  warn  that  users  should  “use  [a]  temp  password  and 
change it in first login” and “use [a] diffrent [sic] password for 
each site.”27 Indeed, the threat of a security breach is high. Fur-
ther Scene notices speak of how “some people got weird msges 
about a guy asking their addline and they gave it and he hacked 
their user on sites” while others detail instances of site operators 
being compromised.28 Of course, such a “ploy to steal ppls ad-
dlines” is also dependent on IP address masking via ident.29 That 
is, in order to benefit from knowing someone’s addline, even if 
the password is shared between sites, a would-be hacker would 
still need to obtain an address within the IP mask, thereby miti-

25  greyline, “glFTPD Configuration File Examples (glftpd-LNX-2.04_1.0.1e-
2+deb7u3_x86_docs/glftpd.conf-EXAMPLES.txt),” mewbies.com, 2014, 
http://mewbies.com/glftpd-LNX-2.04_1.0.1e-2+deb7u3_x86_docs/glftpd.
conf-EXAMPLES.txt.

26  Site.Info.Leaker.READ.NFO.Updated-iND (screamia.updated.nfo),” n.d., 

DeFacto2, warez-scene-notices-2006-2010. 

27  Ibid.
28  “Scene.Ban.SCR.and.RiDERz.Leader.READNFO-iND (Scene.Ban.SCR.
and.RiDERz.Leader.READNFO-iND.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, warez-scene-
notices-2006-2010; “Scene.Notice.FiNaLe (finale.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, 
warez-scene-notices-2006-2010.

29  “Security.Warning.take.note.ppl-BwaRe (security.warning.take.note.ppl-

bware.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, warez-scene-notices-2006-2010.

118

infrastructures of the scene

gating, though not eliminating, many of these risks. This is not, 
however,  impossible.  Many  high-speed  shells  used  for  trading 
are bought from commercial providers. These all sit within sim-
ilar IP ranges. Therefore, it is not beyond the bounds of possibil-
ity for a dedicated hacker to obtain an addline and then to be 
able to obtain an IP address that matches the requisite IDENTD 
mask.

Once a user has been added to a site, they will next be given 
the details on how to connect. This usually takes the form of an 
IP address or a hostname that resolves to an IP address. Because 
IP addresses of servers can identify the location of a machine on 
the internet, most Scene sites use bouncers (BNCs) to cloak their 
true location. BNCs are secondary machines that sit between an 
end-user and the site itself. The user connects to the BNC, not 
to the site. This means that the site’s main IP address, in many 
cases, can remain hidden from the view of any of the site’s users. 
It also provides an additional layer of security because the site 
can specify that only its bouncers are allowed to connect to the 
server, thereby making it harder to portscan for the site itself. A 
site will usually close any connection that does not come from 
one of its recognized bouncers. All the above authentication and 
authorization mechanisms must be routed through a BNC.30

Typically, the point of the bouncer is to serve not only as a 
technical  protection  measure  but  also  as  an  un-prosecutable 
legal intermediary. The BNC itself will not store any incriminat-
ing files and will simply forward on connections. If the police 
raid a site’s BNC — as happened in 2000 to the site, MS, whose 
“bouncer was narqed”31 — it is assumed that there will be insuf-
ficient evidence to prosecute the bouncer operator for copyright 
infringement. However, this may be a flawed supposition. There 
have been prosecutions of individuals for running IRC bots that 
did not serve any illegal files themselves but that aided and abet-
ted the group in running its operations. For this reason, a topsite 

30  Paul Craig, Software Piracy Exposed (Rockland: Syngress, 2005), 111.
31  LS, “SCENE NEWS,” Courier Weektop Scorecard (CwS-102.txt), June 3, 

2000, DeFacto2.

 119

warez

may wish to move location rapidly if a bouncer is busted as the 
configuration will reveal the true site IP address, which can of-
ten be geolocated to give a physical location. Further, bouncers 
introduce another point of failure that can cause anxiety among 
Scene  members — a  place  at  which  infrastructural  breakage 
may be introduced and that exposes the otherwise seamless in-
frastructure,  as  per  Star’s  schema.  For  instance,  in  1999  there 
was  speculation  that  law  enforcement  officers  had  raided  the 
site ATX (“Atomic-X”) because it had gone offline. In reality, it 
was merely that the “site was temporarily down due to bouncer 
problems.”32 Despite the infrastructural fragility that this intro-
duces, many Scene figures believe that “if the site doesn’t use a 
ip bouncer or firewall” there is a much greater risk of a police 
raid.33

Due to the nature of FTP, bouncers come in two flavors: com-
mand-channel  bouncers  and  traffic  bouncers.  A  command-
channel  bouncer  is  extremely  easy  to  implement  and  passes 
commands  directly  between  the  client  and  the  server.  Nota-
bly, when the PORT or PASV command is initiated, the actual 
site server IP will be revealed, and all data traffic will be routed 
directly  to  the  server.  That  is,  because  a  command-channel 
bouncer simply relays commands between a user and the site, 
when  the  FTP  server  is  instructed  to  open  its  port,  the  server 
will report its actual IP. On the other hand, a traffic bouncer gets 
around this problem by routing all traffic through its own sys-
tem but at the cost of much greater complexity and bandwidth 
requirements. A traffic bouncer must process every command 
and response sent to and from the server and rewrite the out-
put IPs for data channels when negotiated. In turn, this involves 
opening a channel to the specified remote address and forward-
ing the data. Finally, this comes with difficult setbacks in nego-
tiating end-to-end encryption as the BNC must read the com-

32  ndetroit, “ndetroit’s sites and stats section,” Netmonkey Weekly Report 

(nwr47.txt), May 11, 1999, DeFacto2.

33  Saint Tok, “Interview with The Crazy Little Punk,” DeFacto2 (df2-02.txt), 

February 1997, DeFacto2.

120

infrastructures of the scene

mands sent to the server and transparently pass the encrypted 
data channel, breaking end-to-end encryption. In this case, if a 
traffic bouncer is compromised, it becomes possible to intercept 
usernames, passwords, and other sensitive information sent to 
the site. For an example of a traffic bouncer and its complexities, 
see  the  Yet  Another  Traffic  Bouncer  project  part  of  the  glftpd 
repository34  Traffic  bouncers  are  of  similar  complexity  to  FTP 
servers and are not trivial pieces of software.

Indeed,  support  for  such  bouncers  must  be  baked  into  the 
FTP daemon (i.e., server) software itself and regular (i.e., non-
warez) server software does not usually feature such support. In 
the  1990s,  this  need  for  custom  security  implementations  and 
other features led to the development of several Scene-specific 
FTP server daemons, the histories of which are documented in 
the Netmonkey Weekly Report, issue XXXVI from February 22, 
1999.35  Beyond  bouncer  support,  these  daemons  contain  fea-
tures not found in regular, FTP server software. These include:

ident-based authentication;
logging of user statistics;

• 
• 
•  a userbase separate from accounts on the server’s operating 

system;

•  group management functionality;
•  ratio and leech accounts;
•  private directories;
•  the “pre” functionality that moves a directory from a private 

area of the site to a public space;
interaction with bots and IRC.

• 

In the early days of the shift from BBS to FTP, Sceners competed 
to develop FTP daemons that provided the richest feature-set.36

34  glftpd, “Yet Another Traffic Bouncer,” Github, 2020, https://github.com/

glftpd/yatb.

35  lester, “Which Ftpd Is Right for You?” Netmonkey Weekly Report (Nwr36.

Txt), February 22, 1999.

36  There is brief coverage of the history of Scene daemons in Alf Rehn, “Elec-
tronic Potlatch: A Study on New Technologies and Primitive Economic 

 121

warez

The  first  of  these  noted  in  the  Netmonkey  Weekly  Report 
was  xftpd,  called  “probably  the  first  major  wide-scale  [S]cene 
daemon  that  every  site  ran  for  years.” The  challenge  with  this 
daemon is that it required custom coding “for pretty much any-
thing,”  leading  to  high  maintenance/sysop  requirements.  This 
criticism indicates some of the hidden labor structures in main-
taining  the  Scene’s  infrastructure,  one  more  of  Star’s  premises 
for studying infrastructure. Just as crackers are adept software 
engineers, writing secure custom FTP server software requires a 
level of sophisticated software development that verges on pro-
fessional standards.

bleachboy’s bftpd, written for “The Bleach Box” (BBX) top-
site, overcame some of xftpd’s weaknesses. “This daemon,” writes 
the Netmonkey report, not only “successfully merged the dying 
BBS scene with the fledgeling FTP [S]cene” but would “revolu-
tionize the way the [S]cene viewed ftp sites.” Specifically “coded 
for  warez,  by  someone  who  knew  what  he  was  doing,”  bftpd 
eventually died out when development stopped. The Netmonkey 
report  also  notes  the  difficulty  in  installing  this  daemon,  one 
more instance of infrastructural breakage due to technical com-
plexity. Nonetheless, this daemon appears to mark the start of a 
competitive phase among sites, where the software itself was a 
selling point for different servers. This proliferation of daemons 
meant that different sites were able to offer different user experi-
ences. At the same time, this was a slight problem because, in 
each case, the authors were reinventing the wheel, starting from 
scratch whenever they coded a new daemon.

Alongside  bftpd  sat  Reanimator’s  rftpd.  According  to  Net-
monkey, around 1998, “[n]early every site that didn’t have a cus-
tom daemon used rftpd.”37 Evidence for this can be found in the 
list  of  software  run  by  various  historic  sites  in  the  Appendix; 
for  instance,  “The  Rising  Sun.”  This  daemon  featured  “[b]uilt 
in support for weektops, groupop, flags, nuking, and a bot .tcl,” 

Behaviors” (PhD, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, 2001), 107.

37  lester, “Which Ftpd Is Right for You?”

122

infrastructures of the scene

which “made this THE daemon of choice for everyone.”38 As we 
will see, these features are key determinants of Scene hierarchies 
to this day. Wkups (weektops) refer to the weekly upload levels 
of participants on the site — to be “#1 wkup” is to have uploaded 
the most on any topsite in a given week, which is vital for cou-
rier chart scoring. Groupops refers to the ability for groups on 
the site to manage their own slots and is the equivalent of per-
mitting a group owner to administer people in their group as 
they see fit. That is, a groupop will have permission to add and 
delete users, up to their slot allowance for the group. Nuking, as 
covered more extensively in Chapter Four, is a system of quality 
control and credit revocation when a release is found to be bad. 
Finally, as covered further below, the reference here to “bot.tcl” 
shows support for IRC daemon bots. These allow the site’s activi-
ties to be relayed to a secret channel, giving an overview of what 
is happening inside the FTP daemon, such as, for instance, new 
releases.

Although  rftpd  was  purported  to  be  in  widespread  use,  a 
daemon called ftp4all was also apparently used by several Scene 
sites,  including  “The  Raging  Monkey”  (TRM)  and  “Narkos” 
(NKS).39 An interesting characteristic of this daemon was that 
it  was  released  under  the  open-source  GPL  license  (The  GNU 
Public  License,  which  is  an  open  source  CopyLeft  license).  It 
may seem a strange quirk, but many of the FTP servers used by 
the Warez Scene are not open source. Hiding the source code 
is sometimes billed as a security feature, although information 
security professionals have thoroughly rejected security by ob-
scurity.40 In any case, the customization allowed by ftp4all was a 
leading feature in its adoption.

38  Ibid.
39  NKS, “Narkos Topsite (NKS-narkos.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

40  Karen Scarfone, Wayne Jansen, and Miles Tracy, Guide to General Server 
Security: Recommendations of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (Gaithersburg: National Institute of Standards and Technology, 
2008).

 123

warez

Furthermore, the open license meant that others could study 
the source code to ensure that it was free of any vulnerabilities 
or deliberate backdoors. As the so-called “Linus’s Law” puts it, 
in  software  development,  “given  enough  eyeballs,  all  bugs  are 
shallow.”41 It was reasoned that with more people looking at the 
source code of ftp4all, it should be possible to craft a more se-
cure daemon. Notably, however, ftp4all did not seem to attract 
the widespread adoption that one would expect from such an 
open-source project.

The  most  widespread  daemon  in  the  period  under  study 
was glftpd, authored by greyline. A closed-source daemon that 
is still maintained as of 2021, the Netmonkey report notes that  
“[n]early  _every_  site  uses”  glftpd.  Clearly,  this  homogeneity 
poses a challenge for sites to distinguish themselves from one 
another: “your site will have to have some other reason to stand 
out, as it will look JUST LIKE every other site out there.”42 None-
theless, siteops are advised by Netmonkey that “[t]his is the dae-
mon if you want the best, but can’t code your own.”43 Notably, 
some release groups began specifically requesting sites that run 
on glftpd.44

This heavy dependence in the Scene on a single FTP daemon 
comes with both benefits and drawbacks. The benefits include 
centralized  bug  fixes,  peer  support  for  setup  and  operations, 
familiarity,  and  ensured  interoperability  between  servers.  The 
major negative, aside from the lack of aesthetic and functional 
distinction between sites, is that any security breach in the soft-
ware will affect the whole Scene. As of November 2020, there 
have  been  six  disclosed  vulnerabilities  in  glftpd.45  The  sever-

41  Eric S. Raymond, The Cathedral and the Bazaar: Musings on Linux and 

Open Source by an Accidental Revolutionary (Cambridge: O’Reilly Media, 
2001), 30.

42  lester, “Which Ftpd Is Right for You?”
43  Ibid.
44  VERTEX, “1000 Password Plus v1.1.0 (vertex.nfo),” November 1, 2007, 

DeFacto2.

45  “Glftpd: Security Vulnerabilities,” CVE Details, November 16, 2020, https://

www.cvedetails.com/vulnerability-list/vendor_id-346/Glftpd.html.

124

infrastructures of the scene

ity of these vulnerabilities ranges from trivial to significant. At 
the  lowest  end  of  the  spectrum,  a  vulnerability  in  glftpd  1.23, 
disclosed in 2001, allowed a connecting user to overwhelm the 
server’s  Central  Processing  Unit  (CPU)  resources. This  vulner-
ability “allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service (CPU 
consumption) via a LIST command with an argument that con-
tains a large number of * (asterisk) characters.”46 Given that us-
ers needed to be connected to the server to perform this action, 
though, the remedy would be fairly simple: to ban the user caus-
ing the denial of service attack.

There have been two critical severity vulnerabilities in glftpd. 
The first of these, in glftpd 1.18, allows attackers to enter a direc-
tory to which they should not have permission. This vulnerabil-
ity relies on the fact that glftpd uses path completion. So, if there 
is a hidden directory called /private/test, attempting to change 
directory to /private/t will enter the /private/test directory, pro-
vided there are no other directories under “private” beginning 
with “t.” The problem here was that glftpd checked permissions 
against  /private/t  rather  than  /private/test.  Therefore,  the  site 
mishandled access management. Such management is essential 
for the Scene as release groups have private folders on affiliated 
topsites, where they store their releases before they are “pred” 
(i.e.,  released)  simultaneously  on  all  of  their  servers.  Others 
who have unauthorized access to these directories could there-
fore steal releases from different groups or gain an advantage in 
trading at speed.

The most serious vulnerability in glftpd to date was present 
in version 1.17.2, disclosed in 1999. This vulnerability allowed for 
total system takeover by connected users. As the description of 
this exploit puts it:

[t]here are three known serious vulnerabilities in GlFtpd. The 
first problem is an account which is created by default upon 
installation of the software. The username and password for 
this account are both “gltftpd” and the uid is 0 (root). This 

46  Ibid.

 125

warez

account can only be used by users connecting from localhost. 
This is a problem because “local users” can log into a host’s 
glftpd with root privileges (and compromise the entire sys-
tem). The second problem is world writeable ~/site directory. 
The last problem is the possibility to execute arbitrary com-
mands on the target host. Glftpd comes with a feature called 
ZIPCHK, which is a command sent to the ftpd to check the 
integrity of a zip file on the server remotely. ZIPCHK executes 
“unzip”  on  the  file  without  validating  the  filename  input. 
With a special filename such as “ ; ls,” it is possible to execute 
arbitrary commands as the uid of glftpd.47

While the first two of these vulnerabilities causes challenges, it 
is the last of these, the ZIPCHK script, that is the worst. For ex-
ample, when one names a file “ ; a_linux_command” and then 
executes  “SITE  ZIPCHK  ‘  ;  bash  a_linux_command’,”  the  file 
“a_linux_command”  will  be  executed.  This  can  contain  ma-
licious  code  that  will  open  a  backdoor  on  the  server.  As  this 
leads to arbitrary command execution, the consequences for a 
server could be dire. At the same time, because glftpd runs as 
root — the most privileged account on Linux- and Unix-based 
systems — a compromise of the main account in glftpd can have 
system-wide repercussions.

Coupled  with  a  network  forensics  investigation  in  1999, 
the closed-source nature of glftpd led a later issue of The Net-
monkey  Weekly  Report  to  declare  that  the  software  featured  a 
deliberate  backdoor  that  would  allow  the  developers  to  login 
without  valid  accounts.  The  claimed  implications  of  this  were 
considerable, with the report’s authors noting that “[i]f ppl take 
this seriously (and they should), then 50 sites need to go down 
tonight,  and  stay  down  until  they  are  100%  confident  in  their 
daemon.”48 Again, there is a bitter irony in the fact that a sizeable 
subset of the infrastructure running this underground darknet 

47  Ibid. 
48  ndetroit, “The Truth about GLFTPD,”  Netmonkey Weekly Report (nwr39.

txt), March 17, 1999, DeFacto2.

126

infrastructures of the scene

uses closed-source FTP daemons speculated to contain security 
holes. Using Star’s notion of looking for the hidden labor that 
undergirds infrastructure provision, it could be that the authors 
of  this  software  felt  that  their  efforts  were  not  duly  rewarded 
and so took steps to reward themselves. That said, later in 1999 
it was claimed, as a rumor, that “greyline is going to release the 
full  source  code  to  his  much  celebrated  (maligned?)  daemon, 
GLFTPD.”49 At the same time, regardless of this, it “will not be 
an open-source project however, and the ‘official’ version will be 
maintained by greyline.”50 The report jokingly noted that there 
was “[n]o word on  whether or not a  certain  infamous  feature 
[the backdoor] will be included.”51 This is all to say that glftpd 
has had a controversial and somewhat checkered history. While 
it appears that the disclosed vulnerabilities were genuine coding 
errors, there have also been allegations of deliberate tampering 
to  allow  insiders  to  login  to  servers  to  which  they  should  not 
have  permission.  The  fact  that  the  source  code  is  unavailable 
helps provide fuel for such speculative fires. Nonetheless, it ap-
pears that glftpd remains in widespread use to this day and is the 
“daemon of choice” for most system operators.

The Netmonkey Weekly Report also details three private FTP 
daemons explicitly developed for certain sites or affiliations. For 
instance, eftpd was run exclusively on a site called E.  Its “fea-
tures include ‘enigma cookies,’ and an ‘anti-restarters’ feature.”52 
The latter likely pertains to FTP’s “REST” command that allows 
resumption of uploads and downloads and prohibiting this as a 
technique to stop couriers simply hogging a file. As to just what 
“enigma cookies” are, this remains aptly opaque to an outsider. 
It  could  be  some  form  of  game  on  the  site  that  features  “for-
tune  cookie”  type  messaging,  or  it  could  refer  to  “cookies”  in 
the technical sense used in contemporary web parlance (used to 
track users and to maintain information across a single brows-

49  lester, “Stories from the Watercooler,” Netmonkey Weekly Report (nwr47.

txt), May 11, 1999, DeFacto2. 

50  Ibid.
51  Ibid.
52  lester, “Which Ftpd Is Right for You?”

 127

warez

Figure 5. The distinctive NFO art for the site Valhalla (V) by Landore/
iMG.

ing session). From the outside, it is impossible to tell. Another 
private daemon, eqlftpd, was run on “EQUALITY-affilled sites.” 
EQUALITY was a courier group, which I cover below, and this 
daemon worked on a distributed basis: “[o]ne eqlftpd site shares 
its  cpu  and  HD  load  seamlessly  across  7  different  machines.”53 
The Netmonkey report notes that this daemon was a very close-
ly  guarded  secret  and  that  it  is  “unlikely  it  will  ever  become 
public.”54 Finally, the daemon hftpd (HADES FTPD), run on the 
site “HADES,” is described as a feature-rich daemon “coded by 

53  Ibid. 
54  Ibid.

128

infrastructures of the scene

exile” that has “the ability to break down releases by groupname 
and disk-size.”55

The purpose of these custom daemons is to give a topsite an 
identity that helps to distinguish it from others. This quest for 
identity  continues  into  topsite  aesthetics.  Topsites  are  usually 
themed according to their name. For instance, the NFO ASCII art 
for “Valhalla” (V), shown in Figure 5, has a temple or giant hall-
way  theme  as  indicated  in  Norse  legend.56  “Camelot”  (CAM), 
shown in Figure 6, has a theme that conflates the court of King 
Arthur  with  a  crusade-like  feel,  akin  to  Chrétien  de  Troyes’s 
ironic retrospective mapping of crusade imagery onto Arthuri-
an legend in his poem Cligès.57 While the culture and aesthetics 
of NFO files are detailed in Chapter Five, customizing artwork 
and a sitebot theme are all considered part of what makes for a 
high-quality site “experience.”58

Notably,  many  topsites  carry  adult  themes  (e.g.,  “Titty 
Twister” (TT) and “Wet Dreams” (WD) in the Appendix) but 
also  racist  tropes.  “Camelot,”  for  instance,  bears  the  worrying 
hallmarks of crusade appropriation, which is common among 
contemporary far-right movements.59 It also features the Celtic 
cross in the NFO, which has become one of the most common 
white  supremacist  symbols  in  circulation,  alarmingly  coupled 
with human skull iconography.60 Other sites also have distress-

55  Ibid.
56  Also analysed by Rehn, “Electronic Potlatch,” 132.
57  Anthony Bale, “Introduction,” in The Cambridge Companion to the Litera-
ture of the Crusades, ed. Anthony Bale (Cambridge: Cambridge University 
Press, 2018), 1–8.

58  [S]peedy, “What Was the Best Site of Alltime?” Netmonkey Weekly Report 

(nwr-19.txt), October 5, 1998, DeFacto2.

59  See, for instance, Amy S. Kaufman and Paul B. Sturtevant, The Devil’s 
Historians: How Modern Extremists Abuse the Medieval Past (Toronto: 
University of Toronto Press, 2020); Rory MacLellan, “Far-Right Ap-
propriations of the Medieval Military Orders,” The Mediaeval Journal 9, 
no. 1 (2019): 175–98; Catherine E. Karkov, Anna Kłosowska, and Vincent 
W.J. van Gerven Oei, eds., Disturbing Times: Medieval Pasts, Reimagined 
Futures (Earth: punctum books, 2020).

60  Sierra Lomuto, “White Nationalism and the Ethics of Medieval Stud-

ies,” In the Middle, December 5, 2016, https://www.inthemedievalmiddle.

 129

warez

Figure 6. “Camelot” (CAM) ASCII 
Art depicting crusade imagery by 
ferrex\SAC.

130

infrastructures of the scene

ing racist traits, some even more explicit. For example, the NFO 
for the site “Dixieland” (DXL), which I will not reproduce here, 
is outrightly and incredibly racially offensive, depicting the Ku 
Klux Klan and using the terminology of lynching. Notably, in 
the site NFO, there is no indication that this site was specifically 
dedicated to racist content. Indeed, the affiliations listed include 
the prominent and respected mainstream Scene group, Drink or 
Die. However, the theme for the site is exceptionally racially of-
fensive, and it sits alongside the many instances of hate speech, 
usually homophobia, found in Scene publications.

information channels and communication

Topsite theming continues into a site’s affiliated IRC channels, or 
sometimes even entire IRC networks, that alert users of on-site 
activities through a sitebot and give updates on the site status. 
Access to topsite channels is restricted to hardware providers, 
site operators (“siteops”), their friends, moderators (“nukers”), 
release groups (“affiliates”), and couriers (“traders” or “racers”). 
Site channels are protected by invitation-only scripts on the site, 
password keys on the channels to ensure that unauthorized us-
ers are not invited by mistake, and encryption using a variety of 
protocols.61

IRC  presents  the  risk  of  exposure  to  those  who  connect  to 
servers. A direct connection can be used to incriminate an in-
dividual  based  on  their  internet  protocol  address.  The  usual 
output of the IRC “whois” command will show the connecting 
IP of the user. It is also the case that, since each site has its own 
channel  or  even  server,  users  are  often  connected  to  multiple 
networks with many invitation-only and passworded channels. 
In order to mitigate the hassle of connecting on every startup to 
each network and channel and to protect the user’s identity, us-
ers typically connect through a third-party IRC bouncer. These 
are  different  from  the  bouncers  used  by  sites.  However,  they 

com/2016/12/white-nationalism-and-ethics-of.html.

61  Rehn, “Electronic Potlatch,” 82.

 131

warez

perform a similar set of functions: the first is that they cloak the 
user’s actual connection source, and the second is that they pro-
vide an ongoing stable connection to the server, which negates 
the need to re-invite oneself to every channel all of the time.

These bouncers are typically provided by third parties or on 
secure servers elsewhere. For example, for some time the Net-
monkey Weekly Report advertised www.socalsys.com as being a 
“Scene-friendly” provider of “shells, bounces, vhosts, and web 
space.”62 This provider was also one of the server providers for 
the LinkNet IRC network. Likewise, Courier Weektop Scorecard 
advertised  a  “ShellBox  Y2K  Special-  $100/yr  3bg  +  personal 
vhost  under  shellbox.org,  payment  must  be  recieved  [sic]  by 
Midnight,  Jan6  <http://www.shellbox.org>.”63  These  shells  are 
used  to  remain  permanently  connected  to  an  IRC  server  and 
channels  without  ever  exposing  the  end-user’s  IP  address.  In-
stead, typically, a vhost, which is short either for “vanity host” 
or “virtual host,” is used to hide a user’s actual address. These 
vhosts, though, also often reveal the “friendliness” of a server to 
these types of activity, although it is no guarantee. For instance, 
as of August 2020, Jeah.net had an available vhost, “hangs.out.
at.the.warezcafe.com.”  (For  example,  a  user’s  “whois”  result  if 
someone queried it could appear as “martin@hangs.out.at.the.
warezcafe.com.”) At the same date, xzibition.com’s “lost” server 
had “user.glftpd.org” as an available host, while “Endurance” of-
fers “pirates.illegal-warez.net” and “has.9-million.gigs.of.illegal-
warez.net.”

Different IRC bouncers provide different functionalities. The 
most  commonly  mentioned  bouncer  in  the  DeFacto2  warez-
scene-notices-2006-2010 pack is “psyBNC,” described as a “way 
to have a hostname that doesn’t tie you to your IP” by one very 
basic scene security document.64 psyBNC is a legitimate piece of 

62  ndetroit, “The Scene News,” Netmonkey Weekly Report (nwr55.txt), August 

2, 1999, DeFacto2.

63  LS, “CWS News,” Courier Weektop Scorecard (CWS-80.txt), January 1, 

1999, DeFacto2.

64  “Site.Security.READNFO-acksyn (Site.Security.for.Users.Windows.XP.1.3-

acksyn.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, warez-scene-notices-2006-2010.

132

infrastructures of the scene

software, with many users beyond the Scene. In its own words, 
it  acts  as  “an  easy-to-use,  multi-user,  permanent  IRC-Bouncer 
with many features. Some of its features include symmetric ci-
phering  of  talk  and  connections  (e.g.,  using  the  Blowfish  and 
IDEA  encryption  schemes),  the  possibility  of  linking  multiple 
bouncers to an internal network including a shared partyline, 
vhost- and relay support to connected bouncers and an exten-
sive online help system.”65 As should be clear, many of these fea-
tures, such as encryption, are highly valuable to the Scene for 
security purposes.

Within  site  channels,  sitebots  produce  information  about 
topsite  activity  in  human-readable  formats.  For  instance,  a 
typical pre-line might appear thus: “<c***dealr> New Util-PRE! 
on  ‘*’  by  fjorre/AOD  :  COREL.PAINTER.V8.0.PROPER.RIP-
CALiMERO.”66 This tells us the name of the release and the sec-
tion,  “Util,”  alerting  interested  users  to  the  presence  of  a  new 
output on the site. However, site announcements also often con-
tain additional information that is of use to traders, including 
in this case the name of the person and group who has created 
the release. For instance, consider the test pre line shown in is-
sue 171 of The Marshall Mussolini Show: “->PRE<-- Woot_a_re-
leaze-trujd-CD-2006-AMRC from AMRC_PRE_MACHINE (1 
file(s), 140kB, genre: ??).”67 In addition to giving the name of the 
release,  this  line  also  provides  information  about  the  number 
of files, the size, and, although missing here, the musical genre 
in  the  case  of  an  MP3  release.68  Regarding  the  later  discussion 
of  trading,  this  information  dissemination  channel  allows  for 
the automated discovery and transfer of releases between sites. 
This release happens in fact to be a trap though. It is not an ac-

65  “About,” psyBNC, 2008, https://psybnc.org/about.html.
66  “SCENE QUOTES,” Ketchup (ketchup_issue_19-2003.nfo), April 2003, 

DeFacto2.

67  “RELEASES OF THiS WEEK,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_is-

sue_171-2006_19.nfo), April 2006, DeFacto2.

68  This information is deduced by the site from the associated SFV file, which 
provides checksums and a file list, and from the ID3 metatag information 
embedded in the music files themselves.

 133

warez

tual music release and Sceners would recognize that “trujd” is a 
leetspeak synonym for “trade.” (Leetspeak is a sub-language of 
scene discourse to which I will turn later in this chapter.) The 
trap  is  set  to  catch  traders  who  are  automatically  moving  ev-
erything from one site to another — the autotrading to which I 
gestured in the introduction.

Sitebots  also  provide  updates  on  the  status  of  races  on  the 
site, that is, they do not just cover information about releases be-
ing pred, but about the particular state of the release on the site. 
For instance, consider the example provided by Craig:

<COGB0T> (COG-NEW) -0519- Flamingpear.Flexify.
v1.98.for.Adobe.Photoshop.Incl.Keygen-SCOTCH by 
xxxxxx(RTS)

<COGB0T> (COG-UPD) Flamingpear.Flexify.v1.98.for.
Adobe.Photoshop.Incl.Keygen-SCOTCH (1 files expected)

<COGB0T> (COG-COMPLETE) Flamingpear.
Flexify.v1.98.for.Adobe.Photoshop.Incl.Keygen-
SCOTCH (total: 1MB / avg. 2909kB/s) 1. xxxxxx/RTS 
[1.0M/1F/100.0%/2909KB/s]69

While the intricacies of racing and trading are complex, this site 
log  from  COG  demonstrates  many  of  the  basic  principles. The 
trader, whose pseudonym redacted by Craig to “xxxxxx” of the 
group RTS, creates a new release directory and uploads, first, a 
Simple File Verification (SFV) file. This file, which contains a list 
of files in the release and their checksums, allows the site to as-
certain the release structure. This structure includes:

•  the number of files it contains;
•  the size of files;
•  and, once the files are uploaded, whether there has been any 

corruption during the transfer.

69  Craig, Software Piracy Exposed, 122.

134

infrastructures of the scene

The site can then infer which files to expect and report on the 
race conditions. New racers generate speed reports on the bot, 
which  also  alerts  couriers  that  there  is  a  competition  under-
way. For instance, “[20:25] <|Azrael|> [flashi] starts punishing 
the  new  victim  [WHITEOUT-DEViANCE]  with  a  speed  of 
[3398k/s].”70

IRC channels are more than just information-dissemination 
mechanisms. They also form the core areas of sociality for the 
Scene. As Alf Rehn puts it, one “could write a monograph on 
warez chatting alone.”71 As such, and as one would expect, IRC 
channels  are  protected  by  various  security  mechanisms.  As 
mentioned  earlier,  site  channels  are  both  password  protected 
and  invitation  only,  with  the  sitebot  issuing  invitations  in  re-
sponse  to  a  “site  invite”  command.72  While  the  latter  aspect, 
the invitation-only feature, ensures that a user has access to the 
site itself and cannot gain admittance without passing all of the 
checks  thereon,  the  former,  the  password,  ensures  that  a  user 
does not accidentally invite a user who is not themselves (for in-
stance, through a nickname typo). In addition, sitebots and ops 
enforce access on an ongoing basis, with users who are deleted 
(for instance, “site deluser”) removed from the channel.

Typically, the IRC networks on which the millennial Scenes 
operated enforced a secure connection to prevent interception 
and  eavesdropping.  LinkNet,  which  specialized  in  encrypted 
connections, appears to have been a common network used for 
scene activities.73 The nature of IRC networks is curious for this 
setup, though. The “R” in IRC stands for “relay,” which is there 
because an IRC network comprises multiple servers that connect 
to one another. When a user connects to one of these servers, 
it  relays  any  messages  sent  to  it  to  the  other  servers.  There  is 

70  “Busted.allstarz.net.logs (Logs_Mandmore_4.txt),” n.d., DeFacto2, warez-

scene-notices-2006-2010.

71  Rehn, “Electronic Potlatch,” 125.
72  David McCandless, “Warez Wars,” Wired, April 1, 1997, https://www.wired.
com/1997/04/ff-warez/; “LAMURGH QUOTES,” The Marshall Mussolini 
Show (tmms_issue_190-2006_38.nfo), September 24, 2006, DeFacto2.

73  “The truth about depax (xdd22245.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2.

 135

warez

a chain of connection between a user, a bouncer, a server, and 
a network in the Scene. Each of these adds hop, lag, and time 
delay  to  message  relay.  Top  traders  will  attempt  to  connect  to 
the same server as the sitebot to minimize latency for new site 
updates about releases.

Notably, however, this multi-server approach combines both 
decentralization and risk. The fact that servers are decentralized 
means that the network can still stand if a single server is com-
promised. This decentralization is a fundamental principle of the 
Scene in general: it seeks to disaggregate risk from any central 
points of failure or security compromise. However, at the same 
time, such decentralization means that it may be easier for the 
network to be infiltrated by a bad server, which can then parse 
the entire logs of a site. For this reason, sitebots and channels 
also often had a blowfish encryption key to protect eavesdrop-
ping by the servers themselves.74 Essentially, the Scene attempts 
to operate on as low of a trust basis as is possible. Sites attempt to 
protect themselves from IRC servers. IRC servers can then oper-
ate on a zero-knowledge basis and can effectively claim plausible 
deniability.  As  ever,  the  weakest  link  remains  individual  users 
who can compromise a site, its IRC channel, or any other of its 
routes. Beyond maintaining a tightly knit community of totally 
trusted actors, there is little that the Scene can do to mitigate the 
risks of individual users.

Scene discourse, which takes place in these IRC channels, has 
its own conventions of humor and standards of interaction. In-
deed, courier charts and Scene magazines nearly always feature 
a section of quotes of the week. As the courier raanu put it, there 
is a “community to goof around with on channels while waiting 
for pres.”75 Some Scene members such as turn|| claim that “chat-
ting in site chans sux anyway” and that “it will only help you get 
into some lame quote bots,” suggesting that the sole purpose of 

74  See, for instance ndetroit and lester, “Interview with metaray,” Netmonkey 

Weekly Report (nwr56.txt), September 8, 1999, DeFacto2.

75  “Interview with raanu (‘Interviewk’),” The Marshall Mussolini Show 

(tmms_issue_082-2004_33.nfo), August 2004, DeFacto2.

136

infrastructures of the scene

such discourse is recursively to feed the quote sections of those 
very magazines.76

Scene  humor  is  frequently  adult  in  nature  yet  immature 
in  its  content.  Sometimes  this  is  not  the  case.  Indeed,  some 
groups  have  deliberate  rules  that  demand  maturity  and  codes 
of decorum. For instance, RiSC demands that its members act 
“maturely”  as  they  “get  a  lot  of  respect  because  of  it.”77  It  was 
important to this courier group’s image to project the impres-
sion  that  “[w]e’re  not  children  here,”  although  the  demand  of 
members was only that they “NOT be rude or inconsiderate to 
other RiSC members.”78 It seems fine to be rude to members of 
other groups or to use crudity in humor.79 Not all Scene humor 
is crude, though. Some Scene comedy, for instance, is just zany 
or related to extremely niche practices that will not be familiar 
to those on the outside. For instance, the courier magazine, The 
Marshall Mussolini Show (TMMS), had a running in-joke in the 
issue header where many, but not every, issue after issue 120 was 
mislabelled “i S S U E . F i F T Y . E i G H T.” “Issue fifty-eight 
comming at yall,” as issue 124 claims.80

Some of the humor is also related to trading and scene activi-
ties themselves. For instance, in TMMS 174 the quote joke reads,

<jack>  btw,  sidenote…  i  know  you’re  trading  for  stats,  not 
creds
stats? I trade to pass quota81

The  joke  here  is  that  while  trading  allows  couriers  to  acquire 
credits (“creds”) on the site at a usual ratio of 1:3 (for every 1MB 

76  “LAMURGH QUOTES,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_is-

sue_082-2004_33.nfo), August 2004, DeFacto2.

77  RiSC, “Guidelines (risc.guidelines.txt),” n.d., DeFacto2.
78  Ibid.
79  RiSC, “Ethics (risc.ethics.txt),” n.d, DeFacto2.
80  “iSSUE FiFTY EiGHT,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_is-

sue_124-2005_23.nfo), June 2005, DeFacto2.

81  “LAMURGH QUOTES,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_is-

sue_174-2006_22.nfo), June 2006, DeFacto2.

 137

warez

uploaded  the  trader  receives  3MB  of  download),  many  couri-
ers do not trade for the sake of credits. In fact, they often have 
more credits than they can use. Instead, they trade in order to 
compete in the upload-chart statistics that are produced weekly 
and demonstrate their couriering skill, thereby showcasing their 
elite access. Indeed, one “releases of the week” section in TMMS 
reads: “[s]orry i’m not into listening [to] music. Trading is my 
passion!”82  However,  sites  also  have  quotas  for  couriers,  who 
must ensure that they upload a certain volume each month, or 
they will be automatically deleted from the site.83 Usually, for top 
couriers, passing quota is a trivial matter. Hence, the joke here 
is that jack says to sidenote that he knows that he is not trading 
for credits, only for the glory of the statistics, to which sidenote 
responds  that  he  was,  in  fact,  only  trading  in  order  merely  to 
make the quota. Certainly, it’s not a very good joke, but this is 
the essence of Scene humor. It “might,” as a later issue of TMMS 
puts it, “also be that you’re just not funny.”84

Indeed, many aspects of Scene humor are, to be blunt, just 
not as funny as its proponents like to imagine. As Jimmy Maher 
notes, with the Scene foreshadowing later in even more outland-
ish  corners  of  the  internet  such  as  4chan  and  8chan,  “[m]uch 
about this underground culture, made up as it was almost en-
tirely of adolescent males, is distasteful, even shocking to adult 
sensibilities of both its time and our own.”85 For instance, a great 
deal of the humor revolves around a casual homophobia of this 
ilk:

82  “RELEASES OF THiS WEEK,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_is-

sue_293-2008_36.nfo), September 2008, DeFacto2.

83  For more on quota vs. leech accounts see Justin Keery, “Special Report 
on Electronic Gifts: Teenage Pirates and the Junior,” The Independent, 
December 11, 1992, https://www.independent.co.uk/news/science/special-
report-on-electronic-gifts-teenage-pirates-and-the-junior-underworld-
parents-should-know-that-children-can-buy-or-sell-illegal-copies-of-vid-
eo-games-and-sex-writes-justin-keery-1562928.html.

84  “LAMURGH QUOTES,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_is-

sue_563-2013_44.nfo), November 2013, DeFacto2.

85  Jimmy Maher, The Future Was Here: The Commodore Amiga (Cambridge: 

MIT Press, 2012), 182.

138

infrastructures of the scene

<daneboy> <-- goin to san fran 20 days! :D
<daneboy> got any suggestions for things to see?
<weirdnick> gay people?86

Such offhand aggression and homophobia that pervades Scene 
magazines and quotes sections are emblematic of a hyper-mas-
culine, geek environment. That said, it is not fair to characterize 
all Scene participants as adolescent men as Maher does. After 
all,  the  topsite  environment  requires  sophisticated  access  to 
high-speed links, expensive computer hardware, and in-depth 
knowledge of system administration. These skills and levels of 
access are typically not available to teenagers. Instead, it might 
be better to characterize these slanging matches as childish or 
immature, with a male slant to the banter. Without excusing ei-
ther, the notorious language of “locker room chat” might be the 
nearest parallel. Though, it is also clear from records of Scene 
busts and raids that women do participate. For instance, there 
is the case of Stacey Nawara, who used the handle “avec” and 
who was a courier for Razor 1911, although she was also the only 
woman arrested during this raid.87 Indeed, of those arrested and 
charged  in  Operation  Buccaneer,  detailed  in  Chapter  Six,  the 
age range was 20 to 34, and the breadth of professions included 
“corporate executives, computer network administrators at ma-
jor universities, employees of large hi-tech companies, students, 
and government workers.”88 This represents a substantial diver-
sity of participants. Nonetheless, as one ex-Scener put it in an 
interview elsewhere:

86  “LAMURGH QUOTES,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_is-

sue_394-2010_32.nfo), July 2010, DeFacto2.

87  Paul J. McNultey, “Warez Leader Sentenced to 46 Months,” US Department 
of Justice, May 17, 2002, https://www.justice.gov/archive/criminal/cyber-
crime/press-releases/2002/sankusSent.htm.

88  Gregor Urbas, “Cross-National Investigation and Prosecution of Intellec-

tual Property Crimes: The Example of ‘Operation Buccaneer’,” Crime, Law 
and Social Change 46, nos. 4–5 (December 2006): 209.

 139

warez

[t]he thing that struck me when re-reading this 20 year old 
text was the level of aggression and gorilla chest thumping. 
Clearly I owe a lot of apologies. This was more apparent after 
I penetrated deep into my garage and dug out the old C64. 
Re-reading  some  of  the  scroll  texts  and  Reason  4  Treason 
articles made me cringe. It appears I took aim at any dork, 
nerd,  drop-out,  non-music  listener,  anti-graffiti,  pro-estab-
lishment, unfashionable person out there. I’m not sure why, 
perhaps it was because I occasionally copped a bit of flak my-
self for being a “computer head” at school. Being a Dungeons 
& Dragons geek and using a briefcase as a school bag didn’t 
do me any favours either.89

As Maher continues, much of Scene discourse demonstrates an 
“adolescent  need  for  acceptance  and  validation”  and  “a  crude 
social Darwinism ruled the [S]cene, with the most skilled and 
connected crackers almost worshipped and lesser lights cruelly 
excluded and dismissed as ‘lamers.’”90

This concept of “unfunny humor” at the expense of certain 
demographic  groups  has  come  under  intense  scrutiny  from 
ethicists.91  However,  I  believe  that  explaining  Scene  humor  as 
funny or unfunny misses its actual function. The jokes in NFO 
files are not present in order to make participants laugh. They 
are,  instead,  intended  as  demarcations  of  insider-outsider  sta-
tus.  Scene  humor  is  not  supposed  to  be  funny;  it  is  supposed 
to  provoke  a  knowing  nod  or  smirk  among  those  who  get  it. 
Further, it often depends on being able to identify the individual 
in question. While names are sometimes censored in the weekly 
quotes sections of courier charts, this allows Sceners who saw 
the  original  dialogue  to  show  off  their  privileged  levels  of  ac-
cess  to  others. The  affect  that  humor  typically  intends  to  pro-

89  Jimmy Maher, “A Pirate’s Life for Me, Part 2: The Scene,” The Digital 

Antiquarian, January 1, 2016, https://www.filfre.net/2016/01/a-pirates-life-
for-me-part-2-the-scene/.

90  Maher, The Future Was Here, 182.
91  Oliver Conolly and Bashshar Haydar, “The Good, The Bad and The 

Funny,” The Monist 88, no. 1 (2005): 121–34.

140

infrastructures of the scene

voke is transformed into a performed esoteric epistemology, an 
opportunity for Sceners to flaunt their insider status. Knowing 
someone  who  appears  in  the  weekly  quotes,  or  being  able  to 
identify them, and understanding what is faintly amusing about 
the context are all part of the elaborate ritual of insider-ness that 
permeates Scene life.

At  the  same  time,  there  is  a  danger  inherent  in  Scene  hu-
mor and its quotes to the participants. While courier charts and 
other documents are supposed to remain interior to the Scene, 
they inevitably leak out into archives such as DeFacto2. When 
these documents contain the Sceners’ IRC nicknames, they ex-
pose these people to law enforcement officers as targets for in-
vestigation. Although some Scene-quotes segments anonymize 
participants,  this  represents  a  dangerous  form  of  humor  with 
inherent  risk.  Likewise,  there  is  the  danger  that  law  enforce-
ment will investigate any document that  names  sites,  sitebots, 
Sceners,  channels,  and  IRC  networks.  While  it  is  probably  not 
thought  through  enough  to  constitute  a  deliberate  act,  Scene 
humor nonetheless remains a risky business.

The  other  distinctive  element  of  IRC  and  communication 
cultures in the Scene since the 1980s is the informal language 
development known as leetspeak (“elite-speak”).92 Leetspeak, in 
which words such as “hacker” becomes “h4xx0r” and so forth, 
initially  developed  to  allow  phreakers  (old-school  telephone 
hackers)  to  avoid  detection  by  the  FBI,  who  were  monitoring 
connections for particular words and phrases. That is, law en-
forcement agents were searching for words that they believed to 
pertain to piracy and cracking. Leetspeak is thus a basic form of 
encryption that allowed BBS users to evade surveillance.93 It is, 
indeed, also from this linguistic culture that the term “warez” 

92  Manuel Perea, Jon Andoni Duñabeitia, and Manuel Carreiras, “R34D1NG 
W0RD5 W1TH NUMB3R5,” Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human 
Perception and Performance 34, no. 1 (2008): 237.

93  Sockanathan, “Digital Desire and Recorded Music,” 181; Tamás Polgár, 
Freax: The Brief History of the Computer Demoscene (Winnenden: CWS-
Verlag, 2008), 70.

 141

warez

emerges, that is, as a shortened and modified form of “software.” 
As Maher puts it:

like  so  many  subcultures,  the  cracking  scene  developed  its 
own  distinct  vocabulary  of  odd  phrasings,  distorted  spell-
ings,  and  portmanteau  words  that  are  still  used  in  some 
segments of Internet culture today. They allegedly replaced 
the word software with warez, hacker with haxxor, and elite 
with  eleet  to  circumvent  electronic  law  enforcement  filters 
that  might  be  tracking  their  activities,  but  one  senses  that 
such constructions were in reality more important to these  
“[S]ceners” as markers of inclusion and exclusion.94

While  the  vocabulary  and  syntax  vary  hugely,  Bruce  Sterling 
characterized many features of this discourse in his 1992 book 
The Hacker Crackdown, noting that “[s]pecialized orthography, 
especially the use of ‘ph’ for ‘f ’ and ‘z’ for the plural ‘s,’ are instant 
recognition symbols. So is the use of the numeral ‘0’ [zero] for 
the  letter  ‘O’ — computer-software  orthography  generally  fea-
tures a slash through the zero, making the distinction obvious.”95 
This orthography can work because the cognitive overhead of 
parsing  numbers  as  though  they  were  letters  is  very  low.  As 
Perea et al. write, “the cognitive system regularizes the shape of 
the leet digits (and letter-like symbols) embedded in words with 
very little cost.”96

Far  from  being  an  unreflective  discourse,  in  its  hyperbolic 
overloading, leetspeak is also deliberately ironic. For instance, 
the  quotes  sections  of  TMMS  are  titled  “LAMURGH  QUOTES,” 
meaning  “lamer  quotes,”  with  “lamer”  being  the  term  used  to 
deride other participants. The almost but not quite homophonic 
“lamurgh” is emblematic of a culture in which the ridiculous-
ness of the language is understood by participants, even while 

94  Maher, The Future Was Here, 182.
95  Bruce Sterling, The Hacker Crackdown: Law and Disorder on the Electronic 

Frontier (New York: Bantam Books, 1992), 85.

96  Perea, Duñabeitia, and Carreiras, “R34D1NG W0RD5 W1TH NUMB3R5,” 

240.

142

infrastructures of the scene

they use it. An example of the self-knowingness of this system 
can be seen in the Netmonkey Weekly Report #78, in which den-
nison  writes  that  he  “will  be  mailing  them  [his  system  specs] 
over  to  my  great  pal  JEFFK  after  I  type  this  report  so  he  can 
‘haxxxx0r’ [hack] my ‘computrar’ [computer].”97 That said, de-
spite the knowing wink in the use of such forms, many Sceners 
take aliases that include leetspeak, such as LiV3D, bl44t, t0m, 
and others.98

In  all,  though,  these  communication  infrastructures  of  IRC 
provide  two  core  functions  to  the  Scene.  First,  they  provide 
information  channels  about  the  internal  working  of  topsites, 
which allows members to see new releases, monitor race status-
es, and keep track of vital stats. Second, they provide the spaces 
of sociality and humor that make the Scene fun.

facilitating infrastructures

If the alternative reality game of the Scene did not have topsites, 
there would be no place for pirated warez to reside. However, 
if there were no IRC servers and channels for these sites, there 
would be no enjoyment. The game of the Scene works well be-
cause participants can socialize with one another in a related but 
separate space to the site, bantering and jostling, even as those 
spaces relay the competitive economic data about races that are 
taking place on the site itself.

Hence,  technology  in  the  Scene,  while  nonetheless  being 
core  to  the  illicit  activities,  is  there  to  facilitate  social  interac-
tion and play. We cannot understand the Scene purely in terms 
of  its  technologies.  We  need  to  comprehend  the  technologies’ 
purposes in order to grasp their role within the overall function 
of the Scene.

97  dennison, “DENNISON’S GAME REVIEW,” Netmonkey Weekly Report 

(nwr78.txt), March 29, 2000, DeFacto2.

98  “stats,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_issue_105-2005_04.nfo), Janu-

ary 2005, DeFacto2.

 143

warez

It is to this functional, organizational element to which the 
next chapter is devoted. Here I turn to the organizational prin-
ciples  that  govern  the  activities  of  releasing  and  racing  warez 
on topsites. This will cover how the Scene’s organization can be 
conceptualized, examining Scene standards and rules, the prin-
ciples of dupes and dupechecking, the roles of nukes and nuk-
ers, and the interaction between local site rules and Scenewide 
standard rules.

144

Organization

the case of courier charts

Th  e Scene is highly organized, but it achieves that organization 
in a distributed fashion. Th  e Scene appears as an organized phe-
nomenon that has emerged without hierarchical leadership or a 
self-organizing paradigm. In this chapter I examine aspects of 
Scene organization and operation. Before we turn to the formal 
structures, I want to give a few examples of Scene organizational 
paradigms  as  seen  in  site  hierarchies,  in  release  group  affi  lia-
tions, and in courier scoring systems.

In this organizational paradigm, consider foremost that not 
all topsites are created equal. Indeed, topsites are organized into 
a hierarchy. Th  is hierarchy of topsites is determined based on its 
affi  liated release groups, link speed, hardware setup and capac-
ity, and other factors, such as linked courier groups.1 Indeed, the 
term “topsite” implies a hierarchy, but not every “site” is “top.” 
Th  e ranking and judgment around what constitutes a topsite is a 
devolved matter decided by those who produce various types of 
charts and rankings. Sometimes, this can be decided democrati-
cally (i.e., “I pick a few weektop traders from the top groups to 

1 

[S]peedy, “What was the best site of Alltime?” Netmonkey Weekly Report 
(nwr-19.txt), October 5, 1998, DeFacto2.

 145

warez

vote on ranks each week”2), but this is not always the case. For 
instance, the Courier Weektop ScoreCard issue 001 from Febru-
ary 1998 used the sites in Table 1. The sources I used here are 
as close to the date of the ScoreCard as I was able to ascertain, 
with additional information from other NFOs cited where used 
to populate other details.

Sitename

Known Affils Known 

Location Siteops and 

Hardware/
Software

Nukers

Hungary4 Bandido5

Canada

AiR Force 
One (AF1)3

RiSE, ViCE, 
Game Group

Ambiquous 
(AMB)6

Renaissance, 
RiSE, GPF, 
Divine Cana-
dian, RTN, 
GCRACK NA

Camelot 
(CAM)7

Backlash, 
Rebels

Germany8

2  LS, “SiTE OPS AND TRADERS READ BELOW,” Courier Weektop Score-

card (CwS-137.txt), February 3, 2001, DeFacto2.

3  AF1, “AiR Force One Topsite (AF1-air.force.one.1998.02.12.nfo),” February 
12, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

4  “opfastlink.txt,” 2002, http://144.217.177.36:1421/EBooks/paraZite/op-

fastlink.txt.
“SceneBusts10 (scenebusts10.htm),” 2000, paraZite.

5 
6  AMB, “Ambiquous Topsite (AMB-ambiquous.1998.02.18.nfo),” February 
18, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
7  CAM, “Camelot Topsite (CAM-camelot.1998.11.13.nfo),” November 13, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
8  CAM, “Camelot Topsite (CAM-camelot.XXXX.XX.02.nfo),” n.d., De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

146

Sitename

Known Affils Known 

Location Siteops and 

organization

Hardware/
Software

Digital Cor-
ruption (dC)9

Renaissance, 
PWA, UCF

Europe

USA

USA13

DaFat of the 
Land (DF)10

Request To 
Send, Sodom, 
Revolution

DreamLand 
(DL)12

DiMENSiON, 
RAZOR 1911, 
The Corpora-
tion

Enigma

Etirnity (ET)14 DEVOTiON, 
MORTALITY

FalseHood 
(FH)15

RAZOR 1911, 
RiSC, GRS

Nukers

Ico, Sinister, 
SirMagik, Iceb, 
Novocaine, 
Toth, Vorteqz, 
Trade

“Powered by 
34mbit T3 
Ethernet”
“24 Gigs”11

Gollie, Mor-
bid16

9  Note that there are several sites with the acronym dC and it may be that 

this does not refer to this specific site, which is my best guess. DC, “Digital 
Corruption Topsite (DC-digital.corruption.1998.02.12.nfo),” February 12, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
10  DF, “DaFat of the Land Topsite (DF-da.fat.1998.02.23.nfo),” February 23, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

11  DF, “DaFat of the Land Topsite (DF-da.fat.1998.09.16.nfo),” September 16, 

1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
12  DL, “DreamLand Topsite (DL-dream.land.1999.01.21.nfo),” January 21, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

13  DL, “DreamLand Topsite (DL-dream.land.1999.04.27.nfo),” April 27, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

14  ET, “Etirnity Topsite (ET-etirnity.1996.08.10.nfo),” August 10, 1996, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

15  FH, “FalseHood Topsite (FH-false.hood.1998.02.26.nfo),” February 26, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

16  FH, “FalseHood Topsite (FH-false.hood.1998.08.27.nfo),” August 27, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 147

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known 

Location Siteops and 

Fortress of 
Solitude 
(FOS)17

Lunatic Asy-
lum (LA)19

PRima-
ryLink20

Quadcon 
(QC)22

Hardware/
Software

Nukers

Europe18

RiSC, Drink 
or Die, 
RAZOR 1911, 
UCF, BLH, 
TRG

Europe21

USA

Katman, GaL, 
BanDiDo, 
Koyote, Poo, 
CorrupT

RiSCiSO, 
Ranaissance, 
SHOCK, 
CoNCePT, 
RNG, GPF

“2 Separate 
T1 Systems”
“43gb Main/
ISO”
“7gb Release”

The ROCK23 PWA, Phro-

USA24

zen Crew

17  FOS, “Fortress of Solitude Topsite (FOS-fortress.of.solitude.1998.02.10.

nfo),” February 10, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

18  FOS, “Fortress of Solitude Topsite (FOS-fortress.of.solitude.1998.12.23.

nfo),” December 23, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

19  LA, “Lunatic Asylum Topsite (LA-lunatic.asylum.1995.04.21.nfo),” April 21, 

1995, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

20  PL, “Primary Link Topsite (PL-primary.link.1997.12.19.nfo),” December 19, 

1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

21  PL, “Primary Link Topsite (PL-primary.link.1996.11.03.nfo),” November 3, 

1996, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

22  QC, “QuadCon Topsite (QC-quadcon.1998.02.09.nfo),” February 9, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

23  TR, “The Rock Topsite (TR-the.rock.1998.08.14.nfo),” August 14, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

24  TR, “The Rock Topsite (TR-the.rock.1999.03.13.nfo),” March 13, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

148

organization

Sitename

Known Affils Known 

Location Siteops and 

Hardware/
Software

Nukers

Finland

Silly Sympho-
nies (SS)25

Stairway 
to Heaven 
(STH)26

MiLLEN-
NiUM, Drink 
or Die, DARK 
SiDE

VENGE-
ANCE, 
PREMIERE, 
CELEBRE

Total Technol-
ogy

The Rising 
Sun (TRS)27

SiEGE, 
CLASS

USA

“T3 Speed”
“10 GiGS”
“RFTPD”

The Wolves 
House 
(TWS)28

Equal-
ity, Shock, 
Parasite, Core, 
Backlash

The Neth-
erlands

Devotion, So-
dom, CLASS

Virtual 
Dimension 
Research Lake 
(VDR)29

“Powered by 
155Mbits”

Europe

25  SS, “Silly Symphonies Topsite (SS-silly.symphonies.1998.05.13.nfo),” May 
13, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
26  STH, “Stairway to Heaven Topsite (STH-stairway.to.heaven.1998.03.04.
nfo),” March 4, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

27  TRS, “The Rising Sun Topsite (TRS-the.rising.sun.1998.01.18.nfo),” August 
18, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
28  TWH, “The Wolves House Topsite (TWH-the.wolves.house.1998.02.15.

nfo),” February 15, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

29  VDR, “Virtual Dimension Research Lake Topsite (VDR-vdr.

lake.1998.02.09.nfo),” February 9, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collec-
tion.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 149

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known 

Location Siteops and 

Hardware/
Software

USA

Nukers

Txxxxxx
Cxxxxxxx, 
Mxxxxxxx, 
Ixxxx, Vxxxxx
xxxxx, 
Kxxxxxxx

Watch Tower 
(WT)30

Pirates 
Gone Crazy, 
Teenagers 
in Crime, 
2000AD, 
Revolt, Real 
Time Pirates

xquziit 
(XQZ)31

RAZOR 1911, 
X-Force

“South-
ern” USA

“XQZ Staff ”

Table 1: The details of ranked sites in the Courier Weektop ScoreCard 
issue 001 from February 1998.

As shown in Table 1, release groups — the basic social units into 
which pirate operations are organized — are often affiliated with 
sites, contributing to their status. Remember, release groups are 
those who obtain software, films, television shows, music, por-
nography, and other digital artifacts that they obtain through a 
supplier,  someone  who  works  within  the  media  industry  and 
can obtain these items before they are on general sale. Skilled 
technicians  within  the  group  (i.e.,  crackers)  then  disassemble 
the software or otherwise circumvent the Digital Rights Man-
agement (DRM) restrictions on the media and prepare this ma-
terial for release. There is an organized division of labor. After 
this,  the  release  is  uploaded  to  the  groups’  dump — a  high-
bandwidth private server. From there, usually by an automated 
process called a prebot, the material is distributed to the private 
areas  that  the  groups  are  assigned  on  topsites.  Release  groups 
are affiliated to multiple sites because different sites hold differ-

30  WT, “Watch Tower Topsite (WT-watch.tower.1998.03.02.nfo),” March 2, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
31  XQZ, “Xquizit Topsite (XQZ-xquizit.1998.03.25.nfo),” March 25, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

150

organization

ent types of content; because different sites are situated at differ-
ent geographical locations thereby affecting possible speeds due 
to internet routing; and because this redundancy acts to mili-
tate against any single point of failure. Sites award a negotiable 
number of affilslots (i.e., affiliation slots) to release and courier 
groups when they take up affiliation, which is the effective rate 
of pay for affiliation within the Scene’s organized economics.32 
Some  of  these  have  upload  and  download  traffic  ratio  restric-
tions,  and  some  allow  unlimited  download,  or  “leech.”33  This 
works because most accounts on topsites run on a ratio-credit 
basis at a rate of 1-to-3; for every one megabyte uploaded, the 
user is given three megabytes of credit to download. Suppliers, 
crackers, and other functionaries within the group will receive 
slots on sites in exchange for their services. However, the slots 
on every single site will likely not stretch far enough to reward 
all group members, so multiple sites are needed.

Release groups upload their releases to their private areas on 
their affiliated topsites and, when the material is present on all of 
these sites and has been dupechecked, the release is pred (pro-
nounced “preed,” a verb referring to the prerelease nature of the 
material) in an organized and coordinated fashion. This action 
moves the content from the staging area to the publicly accessi-
ble area of the site. Dupechecking is, as the neologism suggests, 
a mechanism for ensuring that the release is not a duplicate of 
material that has already been released by another group, show-
ing Scene-wide coordination. Duplicate releases are not allowed 
and, if found, will incur a nuke by a site’s nuker. A nuke marks 
the release as problematic — this can be for duplication or con-
travention of the site’s content rules — and comes with a multi-
plier credit penalty on the site. Therefore, a nuke multiplier of 
3× means that the user loses credit to the tune of three times the 
size of that release. Higher multipliers, therefore, incur a nega-

32  “Stats for CFL (CONTiNUOUS FLOW),” The Marshall Mussolini Show 

(tmms_issue_196-2006_44.nfo), October 2006, DeFacto2.

33  For more on leech slots, see skimp, “Interview with glimerman of RiSC,” 
Courier Weektop Scorecard (CwS-137.txt), February 3, 2001, DeFacto2.

 151

warez

tive penalty. There are various dupecheck mechanisms in place, 
but the most reputable databases are private and, in turn, affili-
ated to sites in exchange for ratio-free slots.

The  release  process  is  a  time-critical,  synchronized,  organ-
ized  operation.  At  any  time,  many  release  groups  will  be  rac-
ing to be the first to put out a high-quality release as multiple 
suppliers  tend  to  proffer  their  material  simultaneously.  There 
can sometimes be only seconds between releases and only the 
latter,  the  duplicate,  will  be  nuked.  Each  topsite  has  multiple 
groups affiliated to it, and these sites will be the first to receive 
all the material that they release. It is therefore imperative that 
the operation to make a release public is executed at the same 
time on all the sites to which a group is affiliated. A siteop will 
usually become extremely unhappy if a group does not ensure 
coordination between all its affiliated sites for the public release 
of material.

Sites are then guaranteed to receive the content released by 
the  groups  affiliated  with  them.  However,  this  will  not  ensure 
that they will hold all the content that is generally available. Re-
lease groups who are not on the site may still release material 
that siteops want to be present in their archive and available to 
their users. Therefore, to ensure full coverage, sites employ cou-
riers  to  bring  them  material  from  unaffiliated  release  groups. 
Siteops also set specific rules that determine content that is al-
lowed. For example, siteops might permit only the most recent 
material, only particular genres of music, and only certain high-
quality release groups. The role of the courier is to earn credit 
by transferring releases from one site to another. This is accom-
plished by one of two routes. Either the trader uses the File Ex-
change Protocol (FXP) to transfer from site to site, or they use 
a  shelltrading  method,  which  I  cover  in  the  previous  chapter. 
When a release is pred, couriers determine on which sites the 
release was pred and copy the release to the sites on which they 
have accounts and whose rules allow the release.

This courier race is supposed to be a game of reflexes, but in 
reality it boils down to sophisticated, automated algorithms — in 

152

organization

a process known as autotrading34 — and high-bandwidth trad-
ing boxes. A variety of technological measures are deployed to 
make  this  possible.  Firstly,  the  IRC  channels  for  each  site  will 
announce new releases, as covered in the previous chapter. Suc-
cessful couriers write custom clients, rarely shared with others, 
that integrate with this system. This likely contains several dis-
crete components:

•  a regular expression engine integrated with an IRC client that 
matches  the  sitebot  announce  and  parses  the  release  name 
and associated components into its discrete elements;

•  a rule or status engine that determines the sites to which the 
release may be transferred and monitors the sites on which 
the release is already complete;

•  a routing engine that determines the optimum route to trade 

the release;

•  a server-based File Transfer Protocol (FTP) client component 
that remains connected to the sites in question and initiates 
File  eXchange  Protocol  (FXP)  transfers  between  sites  from 
the  routing  engine,  or  using  shelltrading  approaches,  usu-
ally  initiated  by  a  UDP  (User  Datagram  Protocol)  signaling 
mechanism.

This  software  may  or  may  not  prompt  the  trader  for  verifica-
tion that it has made the right decisions. When it does so, it is 
deemed a legitimate tool in the arsenal of the site courier. How-
ever, when it is completely automated, the system is an autotrad-
er and therefore problematic. Often siteops will lay traps for un-
suspecting autotraders in the hopes of catching them, which is 
called prespam. For instance, a user named “trader” might be 
found out if they traded the following release:

34  See “iSSUE FiFTY EiGHT,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_is-

sue_533-2013_14.nfo), 2013, DeFacto2 for an extensive discussion of bans 
on autotrading.

 153

warez

Figure 7. Rankings in The Marshall Mussolini Show from 2003. Source: 
“Rank,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_issue_054-2003_48.nfo), 
December 2003, DeFacto2.

<sitebot> NEW PRE! Hello.Trader-Are.You.A.Bot-2014-Pre-
pare.For.Deluser was just pred by Group. It is 357mb of Elec-
tronic.

A human would quickly identify that this release was a decoy 
solely  designed  to  snare  the  unsuspecting  user.  A  poorly  de-
signed, regular expression engine that did not operate without 
a blacklist would see this as entirely legitimate, and would trade 
it  to  all  applicable  sites,  incurring  the  user’s  deletion  on  all  of 
these sites. The tradeoff that couriers must make, then, is either 
to sacrifice their time to accruing the necessary levels of upload 
per month to remain on their sites, or to develop a successful 
autotrading strategy that will not get them caught. The organi-
zation of sophisticated, trading-client software is quite astound-
ing.

This situation is further complicated by the system of organ-
ized rankings and prestige awarded to couriers through the var-
ious wkup chart systems in operation. These charts, which are 
often combined with commentary, and which form the basis on 
which I have surmised most of the information in this section, 

154

organization

go under names such as Courier Weektop Scorecard, The Game 
Scene  Charts,  Weekly  Wanking  Stats,  Scene  Charts,  Retarded 
Courier  Scores,  Ketchup,  and  The  Marshall  Mussolini  Show.  As 
above, in each chart, sites are ranked. In the above example of 
Courier Weektop Scorecard, every site was ranked on a 1x mul-
tiplier.  However,  different  charts  use  different  rules.  Consider, 
for instance, at random, the rank section of The Marshall Mus-
solini Show issue 54 from 2003, shown in Figure 7.

In this chart, points are awarded based on where a courier 
has placed in the weekly uploaded volume for the site. However, 
the multiplier for the site, which is based on how difficult it is to 
trade to that site, determines the points. Hence, scoring first on 
NB, TR, or XTM is better than scoring first on LC or T, which 
in  turn  trump  DOT,  FEO,  etc. The  wkup  scores  are  shown  in 
Figure 8.

Where a courier places depends upon having slots on each of 
the sites and then scoring within the top twenty wkup. Scoring 
twentieth awards one point, scoring nineteenth two points, and 
so on. These site scores are then combined with the multiplier 
to give a points score. For example, WHiTEHEAT came ninth 
in the wkup solely on the site LC. This means an award of twelve 
points. However, because LC is a site ranked 2×, the total points 
awarded are 24.00, which led to a final placement of position 35 
in the charts, having transferred a total of 2,435 megabytes. By 
contrast, junk scored extremely highly across many sites (for in-
stance, first on NB, T, FEO, MD, RSN), transferring 66,126 meg-
abytes and placing first on the chart in total, with 348.5 points. 
Indeed, most of the couriers who scored in the top ten appear 
to be on most sites. sekk1 in position two, for instance, scored 
in the top twenty on every site. As we move further down the 
chart, we find couriers who did not place within the top twen-
ty on every site, although it is unclear whether this is because 
the  couriers  do  not  have  a  slot  on  these  sites  or  simply  failed 
to score. Other charts use this same approach. Ketchup, for in-
stance, writes that “[t]he points are gathered by taking the spot 
of the site the user achieved, and multiply it with the ranking of 
that particular site. Example; if the user gets #1 at a 3.0× ranked 

 155

warez

Figure 8. wkup stats from The Marshall Mussolini Show in 
2003. Source: “wkup,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_is-
sue_054-2003_48.nfo), December 2003, DeFacto2. 

156

organization

site; the points would be 20 × 3, which would be 60 points. The 
points are then being gathered from the sites, and allocated into 
the weekend score for that user.”35

The introduction to the first issue of The Marshall Mussolini 
Show  exhibits  the  typical  scene  traits  of  boasting,  as  loudly  as 
possible, about secrecy, scarcity, elitism, and its own organiza-
tional setup. As the compilers write, “it is a pleasure to have you 
as  our  elite  audience!  By  now,  you  understand  why  I  call  you 
an elite audience! […] Some people have access, some do not. 
If you have access, we are glad to have you. If you do not have 
access, you wouldn’t see this magazine anyway. [… P]eople who 
are not supposed to read this magazine will never have a chance 
to see this.”36 Of course, the irony of this statement will not be 
lost here.

The other common Scene traits that come through in these 
courier charts, though, and the reason that I have here expand-
ed upon them, is an extremely high level of analytical organiza-
tion, coupled with a bathetic plunge into puerility and crudity 
of language. Consider the group standings analysis that was a 
weekly feature of these charts shown in Figure 9. These feature 
intricate point calculations for the group’s overall score, includ-
ing percentage breakdowns for each group member that show 
whether they have pulled their weight this week. However, each 
element of group analysis also carries a usually somewhat im-
mature analysis section. Here we can see that EQMP3 (“jokingly” 
phoneticized  with  leetspeak  to  “eekuu  Σmpeekolome”  or  “ee,” 
“kuu,”  “em,”  “pee,”  and  then,  for  some  unknown  reason,  “ko-
lome”)  are  referred  to  as  “the  tall  gay  finns,”  exhibiting  levels 
of  casual homophobia that are reminiscent of 1990s children’s 
playgrounds  and  that  we  saw  in  Chapter  Three’s  analysis  of 
Scene humor.

35  “RULES OF KETCHUP,” Ketchup (ketchup_issue_19-2003.nfo), April 

2003, DeFacto2.

36  “news,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_issue_001-2002_47.nfo), 

November 2002, DeFacto2.

 157

warez

Figure 9. Group analysis from The Marshall Mussolini Show. 
Source: “Group Standings,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_is-
sue_071-2004_13.nfo), March 2004, DeFacto2. 

At the same time, the sophistication and organization of the 
chart system are evident in the way that the archive presents it. 
The courier obtains the chart in question by issuing a command 
on one of the sites that are ranked by the chart. This is clear from 
the 200 responses that precede each line and the command seen 
at  the  top  of  such  files  (“site  tmms  tmms_issue_071-2004_13.
nfo”).37  It  is  clear,  from  the  files  in  the  DeFacto2  archive,  that 
this chart was accessed by using a custom script assigned to a 
site, in this case “tmms-lister by spirhor version 200211191400.” 
In this respect, the chart makers are correct to assert that their 
system is elite and hard to access. The only way to obtain this 
chart, which nonetheless took a substantial amount of work and 

37  “Group Standings,” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_is-

sue_071-2004_13.nfo), March 2004, DeFacto2.

158

organization

organization to create every week, is to be on one of the sites. On 
the other hand, the DeFacto2 archive has now made this work 
generally available, presumably against the wishes of the chart’s 
creators. The chart had stated that “if anybody with access talks, 
pastes, what the fuck ever in any way shape or form to distribute 
this text in any form beyond which we are already distributing 
it, they will have access removed, and their group may suffer a 
similar fate.”38

Given the scoring system’s intricacies, it is also highly likely 
that The Marshall Mussolini Show charts were created automati-
cally by parsing the site’s wkup commands. However, this is not 
universally the case. Courier Weektop Scorecards issue 72 was 
a total disaster, a case of organizational failure. Here, of the Eu-
ropean Top Couriers, the authors write: “!!!THERE IS NONE, 
DUE  TO  LACK  OF  WKUPS  /  THERE  WEREN’T  EVEN  50 
TRADERS  TO  SCORE  /  SEND  WKUPS  TO:  weektops@cws.
couriers.org!!!.”39 Further, in the “Sites Received” section, the au-
thors extend “big thanks to prozax this week, he was the ONLY 
person to send in wkups.”40 The fact that the records from The 
Marshall Mussolini Show came from a few years later indicates a 
substantial escalation in technical proficiency concerning score 
integration  in  courier  charts  and,  perhaps,  the  mass  adoption 
of glftpd, a specific File Transfer Protocol Daemon. In 1999 the 
charts relied on individuals on the sites emailing in wkup scores. 
By 2002 to 2004 it seems that the charts were much better inte-
grated with sites’ own systems.

From  release  groups,  through  to  courier  groups,  through 
courier charts, and rankings of sites, what is revealed is a portrait 
of organization. The Scene is anarchic in many senses. However, 
it is also intricately structured and organized. Like every good 
game, it has strict rules. But how should we relate this type of 
organization to notions of organized crime?

38  “news.”
39  “European Top Couriers,” Courier Weektop Scorecard (CWS-72.txt), Octo-

ber 2, 1999, DeFacto2.

40  “Sites Received,” Courier Weektop Scorecard (CWS-72.txt), October 2, 1999, 

DeFacto2.

 159

warez

the organization of organized crime

It may seem surprising that the Warez Scene has a strict inter-
nal system of rules and regulations. Considering that the entire 
structure is a clear violation of national and international copy-
right law, it seems ridiculous to expect that this criminal sub-
culture would itself be subject to inviolable codes of conduct. 
Yet many criminal networks, such as the Japanese yakuza, have 
their own internal codes and laws, which is a distinguishing fea-
ture of organized crime.41 It is just that such codes and laws are 
not the codes and laws of the state. In the case of the Scene, it 
is these internal laws that are themselves the very component 
that make the Scene an organized crime network. How should 
we understand the Scene — a dangerous and illegal, alternative 
reality game — in relation to notions of organized crime?

Since  the  1920s  there  has  been  scholarly  debate  that  con-
tests the notion of organized crime two primary axes. As Paoli 
Letizia frames it, the poles of this movement are between, first, 
“a set of stable organizations illegal per se or whose members 
systematically  engage  in  crime”  and  second,  “a  set  of  serious 
criminal  activities,  particularly  the  provision  of  illegal  goods 
and  services,  mostly  carried  out  for  monetary  gain.”42  In  the 
broader public consciousness, organizations, such as the Sicil-
ian mafia, fit the former of these definitions, while elsewhere in 
countries without such well-known criminal gangs, it is the ac-
tivities themselves that are the organized component. As Paoli 
and Tom Vander Beken posit, “the evolution of the organized 
crime debate worldwide over the past one hundred years can be 
synthesized in a shift from ‘What’ to ‘Who’ and a reverting tide 
from ‘Who’ to ‘What,’ with an increasing merger of the two.”43

41  Jake Adelstein, “Global Vice: The Expanding Territory of the Yakuza,” 

Journal of International Affairs 66, no. 1 (2012): 156–57.

42  Letizia Paoli, “Introduction,” in The Oxford Handbook of Organized Crime, 

ed. Letizia Paoli (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014), 2.

43  Letizia Paoli and Tom Vander Beken, “Organized Crime: A Contested 
Concept,” in The Oxford Handbook of Organized Crime, ed. Paoli, 14.

160

organization

The Warez Scene sits in a strange relation to these notions of 
and  debates  about  organized  crime.  When  referring  to  activi-
ties,  the  loose  term  “organized  crime”  usually  denotes  serious 
and violent undertakings with a monetary component attached. 
However, the Warez Scene is potentially none of these things. 
There is no physical or violent component involved. As noted 
elsewhere in this book, the Scene tends to spurn all direct mon-
etary  involvement,  although  it  costs  money  to  build  topsites, 
maintain the high-speed link architecture, meet the electricity 
costs, and so on. How serious one deems its activities presum-
ably correlates to the extent to which the piracy of multimedia 
artifacts directly affects one’s income and livelihood. The confla-
tion of “organized” and “serious” crime remains one of the core 
weaknesses of this terminology.

In a similar vein, if one takes the “who” framing of organized 
crime, the Scene is also oddly placed. As I note in the chapter on 
aesthetic subcultures, the Scene grew alongside the legal Dem-
oScene groups of the 1980s.44 These Demo groups are legitimate 
organizations  with  a  genuine  artistic  purpose  as  recognized, 
even, in some countries’ registers of significant cultural activi-
ties. However, many Warez Scene groups exist solely to perpetu-
ate the spread of pirate artifacts. In other words, these groups 
are sometimes split between legitimate demo divisions and ille-
gal ISO divisions (ISO refers to the file format for CD-ROMs speci-
fied in the standards document ISO 9660. It traditionally means 
“computer  games  distributed  on  CD-ROMs”).  It  then  becomes 
complicated  to  know  whether  membership  of  such  groups 
should be classed as illegal.

44  Markku Reunanen, Patryk Wasiak, and Daniel Botz, “Crack Intros: Piracy, 
Creativity and Communication,” International Journal of Communication 9 
(2015): 798–817.

 161

warez

Nonetheless, whether one wishes to use the terms of illegal 
enterprises and networks,45 criminal groups46 or mafias,47 organ-
ized crimes,48 profit-driven crime,49 criminal entrepreneurship,50 
or  the  organization  of  serious  crimes  for  gain,51  the  Scene  re-
mains  organized  in  many  ways.52  It  is  also  possible,  of  course, 
that  existing  terminologies  are  insufficient  to  classify  the  way 
that  globally  dispersed  cyber-networks  of  criminality  emerge. 
As  Kim-Kwang  Raymond  Choo  and  Peter  Grabosky  note,  
“[c]ontact made in IRC chatrooms between people who have nev-
er met each other (and may never meet each other) in physical 
space can evolve into hacker groups, piracy or ‘warez’ groups.”53
The  primary  ways  in  which  the  organized  characteristics 
of  the  Scene  present  themselves  are  through  Scene  standards, 
nukes, NukeNets, dupes, and other quality-control mechanisms. 
It is to these sophisticated mechanisms of permission, quality-
control, and rules that the remainder of this section is devoted.

45  Carlo Morselli and Tom Vander Beken, “Opportunistic Structures of 

Organized Crime,” in The Oxford Handbook of Organized Crime, ed. Paoli, 
288–302.

46  Carlo Morselli, Mathilde Turcotte, and Valentina Tenti, “The Mobility of 

Criminal Groups,” Global Crime 12, no. 3 (2011): 165–88.

47  Federico Varese, “Introduction,” in Organized Crime: Critical Concepts in 

Criminology, ed. Federico Varese (London: Routledge, 2010), 1–35.

48  Derek B. Cornish and Roland V. Clarke, “Analyzing Organized Crimes,” 
in Rational Choice and Criminal Behaviour: Recent Research and Future 
Challenges, eds. Alex R. Piquero and Stephen G. Tibbetts (New York: Rout-
ledge, 2002), 41–64.

49  R.T. Naylor, “Towards a General Theory of Profit-Driven Crimes,” The 

British Journal of Criminology 43, no. 1 (2003): 81–101.

50  Peter Gottschalk, Entrepreneurship and Organized Crime: Entrepreneurs in 

Illegal Business (Cheltenham: Edward Elgar, 2009).

51  Adam Edwards and Michael Levi, “Researching the Organization of 

Serious Crimes,” Criminology & Criminal Justice 8, no. 4 (2008): 363–88; 
Michael Levi, “Organized Crime,” in The Oxford Handbook of Criminol-
ogy, ed. Mike Maguire, Rodney Morgan, and Robert Reiner, 3rd edn. (New 
York: Oxford University Press, 2002).

52  This taxonomy of terms is derived from Paoli and Beken, “Organized 

Crime,” 25.

53  Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo and Peter Grabosky, “Cybercrime,” in The 

Oxford Handbook of Organized Crime, ed. Paoli, 484.

162

organization

scene standards: internal legal documents

Scene  standards  are  sets  of  rules  for  releases  that  have  been 
agreed by a consortium of release groups. These rules are then 
implemented  locally  by  topsites  as  the  grounds  for  valid  re-
leases  or  otherwise,  although  a  site  technically  could  overrule 
the Scene-wide standards for a release. Releases found to violate 
these  rules  are  deemed  nukes  and  are  systemically  marked  as 
such throughout the topsite network. In order to understand the 
structure and mechanisms of these rules, I will analyze the “Of-
ficial.FLAC.Standard.Rules v3.0” document that forms the cur-
rent ruleset for the Free Lossless Audio Codec (FLAC) Scene.54 In 
the interest of sparing the reader from endless “Ibid” footnotes, 
I will note that it is from this document that most of this section 
derives.  I  will  also  examine  the  controversy  surrounding  this 
ruleset and the disputes that played out over the consensus of 
its introduction. The development of these standards, including 
metadata standards, turns out to have import for understanding 
the  development  of  digital  media  commodities.  For  instance, 
several  commentators  have  argued  that  there  is  a  reciprocal 
feedback loop between the standards of the pirate Scene and the 
improvement of the sold artifacts with which they compete.55 It 
is also crucial, as Maria Eriksson has framed it, to understand 
that  “piracy  standardization  efforts  are  central  to  the  ways  in 

54  The only other scholars to examine Scene release rules in any detail are 
Maria Eriksson, “A Different Kind of Story: Tracing the Histories and 
Cultural Marks of Pirate Copied Film,” Tecnoscienza: Italian Journal of Sci-
ence & Technology Studies 7, no. 1 (2016): 87–108; Virginia Crisp, “Release 
Groups & The Scene: Re-Intermediation and Competitive Gatekeepers 
Online,” Cinéma & Cie 17, no. 29 (Fall 2017): 67–79; and Alf Rehn, “Elec-
tronic Potlatch: A Study on New Technologies and Primitive Economic 
Behaviors” (PhD diss., Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, 2001).
55  Christopher Charles, “Psyculture in Bristol: Careers, Projects, and Strate-

gies in Digital Music-Making” (PhD diss., University of Bristol, 2019), 138; 
Basilisk, “The Beginner’s Guide to Ektoplazm,” Ektoplazm, July 12, 2012, 
https://ektoplazm.com/blog/a-beginners-guide-to-ektoplazm. See also 
Jeremy Wade Morris, Selling Digital Music, Formatting Culture (Berkeley: 
University of California Press, 2015), 70–71.

 163

warez

which digital pirate copies are brought forth as cultural artifacts; 
they do not only help to adjust these object’s production meth-
ods, but also assist in organizing their future lives by serving as 
a background for quality assessment.”56 That is to say that pirate 
standards  are  a  crucial  marker  of  Scene  distinction  and  qual-
ity for releases, founded on a quasi-democratic, quasi-legalistic 
framework of rules, that feed back into mainstream culture.

The  music  standard  under  discussion,  FLAC,  provides  a 
means  of  dramatically  reducing  the  file  size  of  music  produc-
tions but without sacrificing any of the original file in the com-
pression process. A FLAC file is smaller than its raw-audio equiv-
alent, that is, PCM WAV, but the original raw audio is the same 
when decompressed. This differs from formats such as MP3 that 
work by altering the underlying audio stream, removing parts 
of the playback that are inaudible to human hearing.57 When an 
MP3 file is decompressed, the audio stream revealed is different 
from the original source. Information has been lost. This type of 
compression is referred to as “lossy.” By contrast, the FLAC for-
mat is lossless — the decompressed audio stream is identical to 
the input document. This lossless compression means that FLAC 
files maintain the exact same level of audio quality as the origi-
nal, whereas formats such as MP3, that technically only remove 
sound  information  that  is  inaudible,  have  lower  overall  sonic 
fidelity at lower bitrates.

This  FLAC  rules  document  has  been  signed  by  the  groups 
2Eleven, 86D, ATMO, BCC, BriBerY, c05, CMC, CUSTODES, 
dh,  dL,  EMP,  FATHEAD,  FiH,  FrB,  FWYH,  GRAVEW-
ISH,  HBFD,  JLM,  k4,  LiTF,  LoKET,  MAHOU,  Mrflac,  mwnd, 
NBFLAC,  PERFECT,  psyCZ,  SCF,  SCORN,  SMASH,  SPL, 
TiLLMYDEATH, VOLDiES, WRE, and YARD, representing a 
broad church of acceptance for the principles contained therein. 
The rules set out in this document went into force on June 16, 

56  Eriksson, “A Different Kind of Story,” 103.
57  For more, see Jonathan Sterne, MP3: The Meaning of a Format (Durham: 

Duke University Press, 2012).

164

organization

2016.58 One of the most glaring elements of the FLAC ruleset is 
the quasi-legalistic tone of the document. The document begins, 
for instance, with a set of definitions and notes on interpreta-
tion, stating that “MUST=obligatory (release not allowed if rule 
not followed),” “SHOULD=suggested (release allowed if not fol-
lowed),” and “CAN+MAY=optional (release allowed if not fol-
lowed).”  In  legal  documents,  such  definitional  preambles  usu-
ally follow the section known as recitals.

In legal documents, recitals are highly formulaic and wide-
spread, appearing in approximately 85 percent of contracts.59 As 
Marcel Fontaine and Filip De Ly describe them, “[a] large num-
ber  of  contracts,  particularly  those  dealing  with  international 
trade,  begin  with  so-called  ‘recitals.’  The  parties  to  such  con-
tracts use recitals to set out a series of statements that they re-
gard as useful before approaching the body of the contract. Of-
ten, the parties introduce themselves and state their respective 
qualifications. They describe the purposes of their contract and 
the circumstances that have brought about their collaboration. 
The  history  of  their  negotiations  is  sometimes  given.  Recitals 
record a wide  variety of statements and  acknowledgements.”60 
The FLAC rules exhibit all attributes of formal legal recitals, al-
though not in the conventional ordering. This even goes down 
to the level of the history of negotiations, which in this docu-
ment takes the form of a changelog:

CHANGELOG:
2011-10-03 first version (v1.0)
2011-10-10  rule  1.10  with  NOTE  added  to  forbid  single 
file+cue unless source is single track with index.
2011-10-10 rule 3.5.1 added (explanation for TYPE tag).
2011-10-10  rule  3.8.1  added  (explanation  for  ARTIST  and 
TITLE tags).

58  2Eleven et al., “Official.FLAC.Standard.Rules v3.0 (nfo_2016_FLAC.nfo),” 

Scenerules.org, June 15, 2016, scenerules.org.

59  Marcel Fontaine and Filip De Ly, Drafting International Contracts: An 

Analysis of Contract Clauses (Ardsley: Transnational Publishers, 2006), 60.

60  Ibid., 59.

 165

warez

2011-10-10 rule 5.1 adjusted
2011-10-10 rule 5.5 adjusted
2011-10-10 rule 5.5.1 added
2012-05-15 GENERAL section 1.0 splitted.
2012-05-15 rule 1.3 adjusted
2012-05-15 rule 1.4 adjusted and NOTES removed.
2012-05-15 DUPES section created 2.0

The  recitals  here  have  an  impact  on  the  interpretation  of  the 
rules, just as they do in conventional contract law. While “[t]he 
classical theory of contracts says nothing whatever about recit-
als,” it is nonetheless the case that, in the recitals, “one reaches 
the threshold of the contract. There has been a meeting of minds 
and it is in the very document, which records their agreement, 
that the parties feel  the need to describe some of the  circum-
stances  surrounding  that  agreement.  It  would  be  paradoxical 
if recitals were to be without any legal implications when such 
implications  are  recognized  in  certain  aspects  of  the  pre-con-
tractual negotiations.”61 The postscript of the signatories to the 
FLAC ruleset also constitute a form of recital and document the 
mutual assent to the terms of all parties and the binding nature 
of the rules document.

The recitals of the FLAC ruleset also contain a preamble state-
ment  that  clarifies  the  purpose  of  the  document.  The  docu-
ment’s drafters note that “[a]fter 4 years of enjoying the FLAC 
scene and with ruleset wording misinterpretations, it is time to 
revise and add/update some rules.” In other words, it is precisely 
the ambiguity of former Scene rule documents that has led to 
the evolution of these statements to quasi-legal, semi-contrac-
tual forms. This statement forms a declaration of objective for 
the parties agreeing. The document has been drafted to provide 
comprehensive  clarity  over  what  is  and  is  not  allowed  within 
the  FLAC  Scene.  Importantly,  the  recitals  portion  of  the  rules 
document does not indicate the spirit in which the signatories 

61  Ibid., 60.

166

organization

have agreed.62 This is significant because all parties should enter 
freely into the agreement in legal, contractual terms. In fact, it 
is not clear that all groups who have signed the Scene rules had 
an equal say in their drafting. The history of Scene groups shows 
various levels of domination by specific central figures, which 
may lead to a situation in which, with apologies to George Or-
well, all groups are equal, but some groups are more equal than 
others.

Furthermore, while this document is drafted in a style that 
suggests  consensus,  with  signatory  groups  agreeing  on  the 
terms set out as though they agreed to a contract between the 
parties, the reality is that the document is more akin to a piece 
of  criminal  legislation.  Thus,  any  new  FLAC  group  that  enters 
the Scene would not necessarily be expected to sign this docu-
ment as they would were its function contractual. Instead, they 
will  be  subject  to  its  rules,  as  though  it  were  national  legisla-
tion, enforced both Scene-wide and at the local site level. In this 
way, the parties that co-signed the document are probably better 
viewed as lawmakers (appointed based on reputation and track 
record), with nukers as the judiciary branch who interpret the 
law and enact punishment, with topsites as the delegated court 
spaces in which the judgements take place. Of course, there are 
challenges with such a legal analogy. The Scene is also subject to 
real lawmaking and its enforcement in the external world. These 
internal  rules  are  by-laws  and  codes  of  conduct.  Nonetheless, 
given the fact that the Scene space is a separate “world” in some 
ways to the outside universe, there is some merit in laying aside 
temporarily the objections to this analogy.

Further, this document proved to be highly controversial. In 
response  to  its  release,  unknown  parties  pred  a  release  called 
“INVALID_OFFICIAL_FLAC_STANDARD_RULES_V3.0-
SCENENOTICE”63  that  set  out  why  they  felt  the  current  new 

62  Ibid., 67.
63   The quoted material henceforth refers to the document, “Invalid Official 
FLAC Standard Rules V3.0 (INVALID_OFFICIAL_FLAC_STANDARD_
RULES_V3.0-SCENENOTICE.nfo),” January 9, 2017.

 167

warez

ruleset  to  be  illegitimate.  Using  a  bold,  and  impolite,  “neti-
quette” (i.e., net etiquette) form of all-caps, the notice begins by 
stating  that  the  current  FLAC  Scene  regime  is  a  “DICTATOR-
SHIP”  that  has  “A  RULESET  CREATED  BY  PEOPLE  THAT 
AREN’T  EVEN  LEADING  FORCES  IN  THE  FLAC  SEC-
TION.”  More  specifically,  the  countermanding  document  al-
leged: “1. Rules get created by groups that are supplying a section 
since years and responsible for the content you all benefit from”; 
and  “2.  Our  common  understanding  of  a  legit  rule  set  is  that 
a so-called ‘COUNCiL’ gets formed out by leaders of the most 
active groups in a section to control the quality and create the 
standards for future releases”; but in this case, neither of these 
features applied. The dissenting document claims that “[g]roups 
were forced to follow them and signed them without the chance 
to  change  them.”  Clearly,  quasi-judicial  consensus  lawmaking 
was not followed in this instance, although with the extensive 
signatory list, it is hard to tell whether this dispute is simply the 
work of one begrudging party or whether there is truly deeper 
division sown here. 

The  rules  themselves  for  this  audio  format  can  be  broken 

down into a taxonomy of categories, with rules pertaining to

•  general standards,
•  media sources,
•  duplication,
•  encoding standards,
•  name formatting,
•  metadata standards,
•  bootlegs,
•  evidential documentation,

The general standards rules contain a set of specifics that per-
tain to the structure of the release. For instance, the rules state 
that every release “MUST contain an SFV, NFO, and JPG proof.” 
The Simple File Verification (SFV) file contains checksums of all 
other files in the release. It allows topsite zipscripts to verify that 
the release contents have been accurately transferred onto their 

168

organization

disks. The NFO file, as covered elsewhere in this book, contains 
iNFOrmation  about  the  release  including  source,  tracklist,  re-
views, and so on. Examples of source information that must be 
included are “[c]odec (DTS-HD Master Audio, Dolby TrueHD, 
LPCM),” the “[b]itrate (640kbps, 768kbps, 1536kbps...),” and the 
“[n]umber  of  channels  (Stereo,  5.1,  7.1),”  although  the  precise 
data vary by source type. The NFO file may also contain notes or 
errata on the release itself. For instance, it is noted that if “the 
tracklist has changes, for example, due to pressing errors, it is 
encouraged to correct and explain them in the .nfo.” Finally, the 
JPG proof file, to which I will turn shortly, shows evidence of the 
release’s original sourcing.

The  general  rules  also  provide  some  guidance  for  the  con-
ditions under which analog media rips can be considered bad. 
Concerning  vinyl  rips  for  example,  the  FLAC  rules  state  that 
valid reasons to deem a rip “bad quality” include: “[t]he tracks 
are distorted and constantly clipping” or “[t]he tracks contain 
a constant hiss which was avoidable.” Some of the factors that 
lead to bad-rip, nuke-status are subjective. For instance, “[l]ow 
sound, mono rips (from stereo sources) and other factors easily 
heard by the human ear” will subjectively depend on the quality 
of the judger’s hearing. Nonetheless, these rules ensure that re-
leases fulfill the criterion of being near-identical with the origi-
nal media and being of a standard that can be played back as a 
substitute for that original.

The  general  rules  further  provide  some  assurance  of  inter-
system  operability.  For  instance,  the  requirement  that  “[t]he 
maximum  directory  and  filename  length  is  128  characters”  is 
designed  to  ensure  that  releases  will  be  transferable  between 
filesystems, some of which impose hard limits as to the length 
of filenames and directories. Given that many end-users operate 
on Microsoft Windows systems while topsites operate on Unix-
derivative OSes and that both of these operating systems have 
support for multiple different filesystem formats, the approach 
is to work to the most reasonable, lowest common denomina-
tor. This is also clear in the directive that “filenames MUST only 
contain valid characters: a-z A-Z 0-9 _ . - (),” which is not techni-

 169

warez

cally true of all filesystems, although conforming to these stand-
ards  is  helpful  for  system  interopability.  This  does  pose  some 
challenges for the Scene. For example, many musical artists take 
advantage  of  unique  glyphs  in  order  to  style  their  names  dif-
ferently. For instance, ŦĦ€ ØĐĐŇ€ŞŞ, Prince’s “love symbol,” 
“BANNΞRS,” or even just “Röyksopp” are unacceptable charac-
ters for FLAC Scene filenames. This in turn can pose problems 
for site-indexing functionalities that rely on people knowing the 
idiosyncratic transcriptions that encoders have used to replace 
the underlying text.

The “Invalid Official FLAC Standard Rules” also details vari-
ous workings of different formats, again designed most closely 
to preserve the original source medium. The FLAC Scene stip-
ulates  music  may  be  extracted  from  “BLURAY,  CD,  DVD(A), 
HDDVD and VINYL” as valid sources, excluding cassettes, reel 
to reel recordings, and, it seems, born-digital releases. This latter 
element is curious. Much music, released only as digital down-
loads, is available behind paywalls. In this iteration at least, FLAC 
Scene rules do not allow for such releases. This could be an ef-
fort to save space on topsites rather than reaching for the com-
prehensiveness that such an approach would take. Within these 
forms, it is stated that “[a]ll physical mediums (including mixed 
CD(s) / e.g. DJ-Mixes) MUST be ripped as separate tracks ac-
cording to the TOC (Table Of Contents) on the medium.”

The  physical,  media  element  is  clearly  of  huge  importance 
to the FLAC Scene and the rules make it clear that rippers must 
prove they own the original form. For this reason, the rules in-
sist  that  “[r]eleases  MUST  always  contain  a  proof  CAMERA 
picture in JPEG format.” In fact, it is stated that “[p]roof camera 
pictures  MUST  contain  both,  medium(s)  and  cover  together” 
and that “[i]f there is no cover, a booklet or promo sheet or any-
thing valid MUST be included to prove that the ripper has the 
release.” The group must also prove that they have not stolen the 
release from another group. They do this by including a piece of 
paper in the photograph of the original medium with the group 
name  written  on  it  according  to  the  rule,  “[t]he  proof  picture 
MUST include a small piece of paper over the medium(s) and/

170

organization

or  the  cover  with  GROUP  name.”  Demonstrating  the  physi-
cal provenance here is all part of the inter-group competition, 
showing that the groups have a hard-copy supply chain in place.
What  is  most  interesting  about  the  insistence  on  physical 
media and the proof that the ripper has the artifact in question 
is  that  crediting  and  claiming  ownership  over  the  rip  appears 
more  important  than  simply  releasing  music.  While  there  are 
additional  security  risks  that  come  with  uploading  tracks  to 
topsites  from  commercial  digital  music  stores — in  particular, 
individually watermarked audio streams — it seems more likely 
that the obsession with the physical media is more about the sta-
tus of elite suppliers. On the day of a digital release, anyone can 
pay to download an album and then upload it. Sceners are not 
interested in this model because it would then be easy to gain 
Scene access simply by buying digital media and uploading it. 
Instead, they are interested in elite supply routes that can obtain 
music releases before they hit the shops, pre-0day material (that 
is, before the release date). Having the latest Lady Gaga album 
three weeks before its released is the aim of the FLAC Scene, it 
would seem; it is not to develop a comprehensive archive of all 
music ever, including digital-format releases.

Indeed, the second part of the Scene’s dissenting document 
expressed outrage that web releases were forbidden in the new 
ruleset.  While  acknowledging  that  there  was  a  problem  with 
users  “hacking  google.play”  to  obtain  web  rips,  the  counter-
force asserted that this “is no excuse to forbid all WEB content.” 
The dissident(s) also noted that higher bitrates (e.g., “24 Bit/96 
kHz”)  were  possible  in  web  formats,  and  that  in  many  cases, 
there would be “NO DIFFERENCE to the retail product. There 
is just no physical medium anymore!” In other words, the focus 
in the FLAC Scene on physical media sources is by no means a 
shared concern of all members.

The inclusion of proof image files is also an interesting move 
in terms of risk-benefit balance. Images can reveal identifiable 
information about the poster both in the contents of the image 
itself and the EXIF (Exchangeable Image File Format) metadata. 
As the rules note, users should take “[s]ecurity precautions.” For 

 171

warez

instance, it is specified that “EXIF metadata should be removed 
from JPEG files! Uniquely identifying information such as the 
camera serial number and GPS coordinates can pose a security 
threat if not removed, so this is very ESSENTIAL!” At the same 
time,  the  astute  reader  will  nonetheless  recognize  that  this  is 
only a “should” condition despite the end warning that is it “ES-
SENTIAL.” It is also noted that “[i]f the medium/cover/booklet 
contains anything that may expose your identity, then that part 
of image can be blurred or blackened.”

This rule should, I believe, cause some alarm among Sceners. 
While the entire enterprise is a balance of risks and of conduct-
ing clearly illegal activities while taking precautions and hoping 
not to be caught, the rules expressly acknowledge that there is 
scope to introduce identifiable information into the proof im-
age. In the quest to ensure that rippers prove that they possess 
the original medium from which the rip came, there is a sub-
stantially increased risk of being identified. Indeed, if the FLAC 
Scene were entirely serious about security, this rule would not 
exist, allowing, as it does, for image modification “to hide any-
thing that might expose [the] ripper.” As above, it is clear this 
proof rule is present to ensure that the Scene’s focus lies in ob-
taining prerelease albums and in having an elite supply chain.

Such a focus is also evident in the section of the FLAC rules 
on advance and promo releases. These releases demonstrate that 
suppliers  are  truly  on  the  inside  of  the  music  industry,  as  ad-
vance and promo releases refer not just to having the material 
ahead of launch but instead having a copy that was specifically 
mailed  out  to  special  contacts  before  the  release  date.  As  the 
rules put it, “[a]n ADVANCE or PROMO is not available at re-
tail and is usually labelled with some variation of the words Ad-
vance and/or Promotional. Having a release before its retail date 
does not automatically make it an ADVANCE.” The differential 
value  placed  on  advance  and  promo  releases  is  demonstrated 
compared to having pre-retail access. The latter can be obtained 
by persuading a shop clerk at a record store to allow access to 
material before it is released. In some cases, it will be employees 

172

organization

of music shops who are the suppliers. However, these individu-
als are unlikely to have access to advance and promo releases.

That  said,  it  is  not  straightforwardly  the  case  that  advance 
and promo releases are accorded higher worth than pre-retail 
releases. For one thing, some of these releases are watermarked 
with voiceovers and other features primarily designed precisely 
to stop the kind of prerelease leaking in which the FLAC Scene 
specializes.  Hence,  the  Scene  rules  tell  us,  “ADVANCE  and 
PROMO releases with voice overs, silence, or cuts on tracks are 
not allowed.” Further, as I will discuss more below, in the section 
on dupechecking, the rules state that “ADVANCE and PROMO 
releases  can  always  be  duped  by  any  retail  release  even  if  the 
tracks on both releases are identical.” That is to say that the final 
release version of a record can always be released alongside an 
advance or promo, regardless of whether the sonic qualities of 
the record are identical. This demonstrates a differential value 
placed on advance and promo releases. It is not that these titles 
are unilaterally viewed as superior to their retail counterparts; 
rather they are seen as a different category with a unique set of 
constraints in acquisition and checking involved. For one thing, 
given the ban on voiceovers, periods of silence, and so forth, it 
is clear that the ripper must actually listen to the material be-
fore it is released. Although this can be done in parallel to other 
activities, such as encoding, tagging, uploading, disseminating, 
and then pre-ing, it nonetheless adds an hour or so of work for 
each album-length release. Given the often time-critical nature 
of Scene releases, this is far from a trivial matter.

Other standards, such as encoding parameters, are present in 
the rules for different reasons. As noted earlier, in Susan Leigh 
Star’s appraisal, in addition to the fact that infrastructures func-
tion on the grounds of standardization, there are unique Scene 
characteristics  and  rationales  for  standardization.  The  encod-
ing  section  of  the  ruleset,  for  instance,  specifies  that  “[a]  re-
lease MUST be encoded using FLAC 1.3.1” and that “[a] release 
MUST be encoded using the --compression-level-8 option.” The 
reasons  for  this  rule  are  diverse.  First,  by  specifying  the  same 
encoding  parameters  across  releases,  the  rules  ensure  that  re-

 173

warez

lease groups do not inflate the size of releases for courier racing 
purposes (that is, to give themselves more file credit). As low-
er compression settings yield larger files, and level eight is the 
highest level of FLAC compression, there could be a temptation 
for the ripper to inflate the release size to capitalize on the 1-to-3 
ratio of upload to download afforded by most sites. While the 
ratio does not apply to all accounts, and many rippers will have 
exempt leech accounts, larger files change the dynamic of racing 
for the couriers and use more of the topsite’s hard disk space.

Second,  though,  this  level  of  compression  and  the  use  of  a 
unified, standard version of FLAC change the speed qualities of 
a race to release. By creating smaller files, the files that are more 
heavily compressed are quicker to upload and spread to all of 
the  group’s  topsite  pre  areas.  On  the  other  hand,  compressing 
files at level eight requires slightly more CPU capacity and takes 
longer. Compared to the upload bottleneck, it is not likely that 
the additional CPU load will result in any substantial delay for a 
group.  When  a  release  comes  down  to  seconds,  anything  that 
changes the time dynamics can be significant. Third and finally, 
some settings in the FLAC encoder can alter the lossless nature of 
the compression. One of these is replay gain, which attempts to 
normalize the perceived loudness of audio tracks. If this option 
is applied, FLAC’s decompression routine will produce a differ-
ent  output  to  the  original  input  source.  Hence,  the  rules  state 
that “[a] release MUST NOT be encoded using --replay-gain or 
any kind of option that changes the audio source quality.”

The largest part of the FLAC Scene rules is dedicated to the 
naming conventions for releases. This ranges from insistences; 
the  tag  “FLAC”  “MUST  be  in  uppercase  in  the  release  name 
and  always  before  -YEAR  and  -GROUP  tags”  to  a  list  of  val-
id  “TYPE”  tags,  that  include  “Advance,  Promo,  Retail,  Bonus, 
Mag,  Split,  OST,  Digipak,  Audiobook,  Bootleg,  Demo,  Sam-
pler,  Whitelabel,  Reissue,  Remastered.  <country>  (eg:  JP_Re-
tail, US_Reissue), Ltd, Limited, Limited_Edition, Ltd_Edition, 
Tour_Edition,  Deluxe_Edition,  Special_Edition,  Digipa(c)k, 
Digipa(c)k_Edition,  Clean,  Explicit,  Expanded_Edition,  Col-
lectors_Edition,  Boxset.”  This  culminates  in  a  naming  format 

174

organization

that  includes  much  pertinent  artist  and  album  information 
within the directory structure itself, with a minimum of “Art-
ist-Title-SOURCE-FLAC-YEAR-GROUP”  and  a  maximum  of 
“Artist-Title-(CATALOGUE)-LANG-ADDITIONAL-TYPE-
SOURCE-FLAC-YEAR-GROUP.” An example of a final release 
name  is  “VA-Masterpiece_Created_By_Andrew_Weatherall-
3CD-FLAC-2012-DeVOiD.”

As ugly as it is, the naming standard is sculpted to interact 
with the trading clients of couriers. Formatting release names in 
this way makes it easy to parse the year of publishing, the group 
who  released  it,  the  source,  and  other  items. This  is  pertinent 
because  different  sites  will  have  different  rules  for  what  is  al-
lowed. For instance, some sites may have a maximum limit of 
two CDs within a release. Hence, the above “3CD” can be parsed 
and algorithmically determined that the release should not be 
transferred to sites that prohibit it. Likewise, sites may specify 
that only releases from the current year or the year before are 
allowed. Encoding the year in the release name allows for easy 
parsing and site selection. That this automatic parsing is a cru-
cial component is clear from the insistence in the rules on the 
ordering  of  information,  allowing  for  a  predictable  sequence; 
for  instance,  “CATALOGUE  and  TYPE  are  optional  tags  (ex-
cept for rule 4.10). When they are used, they MUST be placed 
in the correct order.” There are similar restrictions and prescrip-
tions for filenames that, again, allow for easy parsing.

The penultimate section of the rules that I will discuss pertain 
to metadata within the FLAC files. These take the form of Vorbis 
comment tags, a metadata container standard that is common 
to many different types of media and that contains a set of field 
codes. Unlike their correlate ID3 tags in the MP3 format, Vorbis 
metadata fields are free-text, so consensus is required to decide, 
de facto, on which tags to use. The FLAC rules specify that the 
“TRACKNUMBER,  ARTIST,  TITLE,  ALBUM,  GENRE,  and 
DATE (format: YYYY)” fields must be present. Of note here is 
the genre tag. For the same reasons as above, it seems that some 
topsites  have  genre  restrictions.  Embedding  this  information 
within  the  files  allows  sitebots  to  announce  the  genre  and  for 

 175

warez

trading clients then to understand the valid target site set for the 
release. This is clear because the genre tag is specified as con-
taining, compulsorily, text from a limited subset: “A Cappella, 
Acid, Acid Jazz, Acid Punk, Acoustic, AlternRock,” and so on.

The  FLAC  format  also  allows  for  the  embedding  of  picture 
data. The FLAC Scene rules state that “[t]he FLAC picture block 
(METADATA_BLOCK_PICTURE)  MUST  be  empty,”  mean-
ing that embedding album art within the file itself is prohibited. 
While it is not clear what the precise rationale is for this, it could 
be because allowing the embedding of arbitrary-length base64 
encoded binary objects within the file can substantially inflate 
the FLAC file size, thereby changing the dynamics of a race. As 
players do not universally support this block, it may also be seen 
as redundant when rule 9.5 of the FLAC Scene’s “Invalid Official 
FLAC  Standard  Rules”  specifies  that  releases  must  include  im-
ages as separate files regardless.

This discussion has covered, for the most part, the high-level 
outlines of the FLAC Scene. Every sub-Scene has a similar set of 
principles that govern releases. For instance, in one of its claus-
es,  the  0day  Scene  has  a  detailed  specification  document  that 
neatly embodies the link between the rules or principles and the 
topsite Scene on the ground: “[t]hese rules and guidelines are 
intended for release-groups in the first place, and sites second-
ary. We hope that in time many sites will take over the majority 
of these rules.”64 (Confusingly, “0day” refers not only to mean-
ing on or before the day of release of a piece of software, but also 
to a class of smaller applications, such as office system utilities.)
Importantly,  there  is  one  area  that  I  have  not  examined  in 
this  section  that  has  used  the  FLAC  Scene  as  a  case  study  for 
Scene rules: duping, dupes, and dupechecking. It is to these im-
portant elements of Scene practice that we now turn.

64  ACME et al., “0day Scene Release Rules (nfo_2010.1_0DAY.nfo),”  

Scenerules.org, January 12, 2010, scenerules.org.

176

organization

dupes and dupechecking

Perhaps the most notable and, for those outside the Scene, cu-
rious, aspect of the rules pertains to dupes and dupechecking. 
These  refer  to  the  idea  that  only  one  release  group  may  put 
out  a  version  of  a  specific  pirate  artifact.  Duplicates,  in  other 
words, are not allowed. It is certainly somewhat surprising that 
a  culture  that  works  on  the  very  basis  of  illegally  duplicating 
software,  games,  movies,  music,  pornography,  and  other  me-
dia forms should have rules stipulating that one group may not 
duplicate  the  work  of  another.  However,  this  contradiction  in 
terms does not pose a problem for Sceners who value novelty 
above almost anything else. As the 0day ruleset says, “[s]tealing 
cracks/keygens from P2P, WEB, or other scene groups is clearly 
not allowed!”65 A culture that specializes in stealing the work of 
others — despite all the problems with that term in the digital 
space — has a set of stringent rules about not stealing the work 
of others.

To return to the FLAC Scene rules document analyzed in the 
last part of this chapter, the section on dupes is extensive. In the 
FLAC Scene, the most important rule is that “[a] release MUST 
not be identical to a previous release, except ADVANCE/PRO-
MO releases (Rule 7.2).”66 There are, clearly, ambiguities around 
what constitutes identical to a previous release, and the rules are 
clear in specifying this. “A release is not identical to a previous 
release,” the rules state, “if: 1 The previous version has a different 
mastering; 2 The previous version has a different tracklist; 3 The 
previous version has a different version of a track.”67

An important note here is that the duplication rules for the 
FLAC  Scene  are  much  more  lenient  than  those  found  on  pri-
vate, audiophile, Bittorrent music trackers. The ruleset for the 
enormously popular What.CD tracker is available and publicly 
archived on the web, and it makes for interesting comparative 

65  Ibid.
66  2Eleven et al., “Official.FLAC.Standard.Rules v3.0 (nfo_2016_FLAC.nfo).”
67  Ibid.

 177

warez

reading.68 In the What.CD rules, duplicates are determined by 
the  precise  audio  characteristics  of  each  edition,  and  they  are 
not merely based on the tracklist. In the What.CD model, there 
are several key factors that determine whether a version of an 
album should be considered a duplicate — media Table of Con-
tents (TOC); track peak level; track pre-gap; and CRC values.

In the What.CD rules, the CD TOC plays an important role. 
“The Table of Contents (TOC of the extracted CD),” as they put 
it, “lists the tracks present on the CD, the various lengths of each 
track, and the order of the tracks. The TOC also lists the exact 
data sector values for the boundaries of each track. Differences 
in the TOC between two album versions typically, although not 
always, denote separate album editions.” On What.CD, this TOC 
was combined with the track peak levels: “[t]he peak level value 
for each track (1–100% for EAC [Exact Audio Copy] and 0.001–
1.000 for XLD [X Lossless Decoder]) indicates the loudness of 
the track. A value of 100% for an EAC-ripped track corresponds 
to the maximum loudness for that track. Different album edi-
tions tend to have substantial differences in the peak level values 
for corresponding tracks, resulting from distinct album master-
ing/remastering processes for the two editions.”

Two  other  factors  combine  to  yield  distinct  albums  in  the 
What.CD model. The first of these is track pre-gap lengths. “The 
pre-gap lengths,” the What.CD rules explain,

describe the amount of time separating two adjacent tracks. 
These periods of time typically consist of silence. This can be 
a good source of information for distinguishing album edi-
tions. However, because EAC and XLD both offer a number 
of choices with respect to gap detection the values can vary 
wildly (between either EAC and XLD or even between differ-
ent versions of the same program) and still denote the same 
edition. For example, EAC offers three gap detection meth-
ods. On some CDs, using any one of the three methods will 
give you identical pre-gap length values. Yet on other CDs, 

68  “Rules,” What.CD, n.d., http://rescene.wikidot.com/what-cd-rules.

178

organization

gap detection Method A will give the most accurate results 
when compared to B or C. Pre-gap lengths have no effect on 
the audio data and are not as important in determining al-
bum edition as the two previous benchmarks.

The above factors are all seen alongside the CRC (Cyclic Redun-
dancy Check) value of the track rips. “The CRC value,” the rules 
say, “is a representation of the data contained in an audio file. 
Each track for a properly-ripped album will contain a Test CRC 
value and a Copy CRC value. If the Test and Copy values match, 
you are assured that the data transfer from CD to hard drive was 
performed as faithfully and as accurately as possible. If there is 
a  mismatch  between  the  Test  and  Copy  CRC  values,  you  can 
be equally sure that there is some error with your rip for that 
particular track.” In addition, the CRC value may differ between 
different versions of the same album.

What.CD  allowed  multiple  formats  of  audio  file  (e.g.,  AAC, 
MP3, and FLAC) and rips within these categories were of vary-
ing  standards.  Varying  standards  ranged  from  the  mechanics 
of FLAC files to FLAC files with a log, documenting the rip and 
its provenance. Using the software “Exact Audio Copy,” for in-
stance,  with  a  100%  log  score  and  a  .cue  file  allowed  the  end 
download  precisely  to  reproduce  the  original  CD  data  layout. 
Due  to  these  varying  standards,  dupes  in  this  tracker  were  a 
complex matter, as demonstrated in Figure 10.

The system of duplicates and format trumping on the audio-
phile private tracker system of What.CD is much more inclusive 
and  comprehensive  than  the  system  used  in  the  FLAC  Scene. 
That is not to say that there is not a hierarchy of releases and 
duplicates within the Scene. For instance, there are rules about 
the  source  media  and  what  can  dupe  what:  “BLURAY  cannot 
dupe any other source, except HDDVD. HDDVD cannot dupe 
any other source, except BLURAY. CD cannot dupe any other 
source, except BLURAY and HDDVD. DVD cannot dupe any 
other source. VINYL cannot dupe any other source.” Vinyl and 
DVD releases, at the bottom of the list, cannot be duplicates of 
any other format. If a vinyl version of a CD is available and the 

 179

warez

180

.
t
r
a
h
C
”
p
m
u
r
T
“
/
e
p
u
D
D
C

.
t
a
h
W

e

Th 

.

0
1

e
r
u
g
i
F

 
 
 
 
 
organization

CD has already been released in the FLAC Scene, then the vinyl 
version cannot be ripped and released. Any group who did so 
would incur a nuke and subsequent penalty.

This is to note that What.CD aimed for comprehensiveness 
while the FLAC Scene aims at functional uniqueness and privi-
leged  the  unique  rip.  What.CD  encouraged  posting  multiple 
editions that, at times, had inaudible differences, such as minor 
changes in the data layout on the CD due to manufacturing pro-
cesses. It also allowed different sources to co-exist in any order. 
That is, on What.CD users could upload a vinyl version with the 
same tracklist as an existing CD and not be penalized. The FLAC 
Scene, by contrast, stipulates that a “release MUST not be a col-
lection of discs that have already all been individually released. 
For example, releasing a 2CD that combines a CD and EP after 
they have both been indivually [sic] released is not allowed.”

Further,  the  checking  process  required  to  confirm  unique-
ness  in  the  FLAC  Scene  is  complicated.  Rule  2.5  states  that  a 
“release MUST not have all its tracks included in one previous 
release. Examples: a CDS [CD single] cannot be released after a 
CDM [CD maxi-single] that includes all the tracks on the CDS. 
An album cannot be released after a boxset that includes all the 
tracks from that same album. A CDM or CDEP [CD extended 
play] cannot be released after a release has been reissued with 
all  tracks.”  In  other  words,  a  release  group  must  check,  at  the 
file level, that the tracks in question have not appeared on other 
releases. That said, the rules on fresh mastering that constitute 
a new release can make this tricky to ascertain. I argue that the 
FLAC Scene should not be viewed as a quest for total inclusiv-
ity. On the contrary, the rules are designed to make it hard to 
find new releases, to introduce an element of scarcity into the 
proceedings, and to increase the Scene’s competitiveness. This 
fits with the other characteristics of racing and speed obsession 
in this space, making it a difficult alternative reality game. This 
“emphasis on only releasing new titles,” argues Virginia Crisp, 
“inevitably skews the titles that circulate online” in the Scene.69

69  Crisp, “Release Groups & The Scene,” 75.

 181

warez

182

organization

Figure 11. Checkpoint in 1997.

In order to determine whether a release is allowed, a ripper 
and group require access to a dupechecker. A dupechecker is a 
database  of  existing  releases,  often  containing  the  file  list  and 
other information about the releases. Given that the Scene has 
been operative for several decades, comprehensive dupecheck-
ers  are  large  databases.  Some  dupecheckers — also  known  as 
pre-dbs — are  public.  At  the  moment,  there  are  several  public 
pre-dbs, of which perhaps the most prominent is srrDB. These 
sites do not host any warez themselves. Instead, they host meta-
data about releases. srrDB, for instance, notes in its footer that 
“srrDB is an historical record of the [W]arez [S]cene. We do not 
offer illegal downloads nor links to these works. All metadata 
gets added by our awesome users. Photographs or pictures can 
be  part  of  these  historical  records,  deemed  fair  use  (news  re-
porting and research) and are only a part of the complete work, 
but  copyrights  are  owned  by  their  respective  creators  or  right 
holders.”

The public srrDB contains 6,142,334 releases and has stored 
copies  of  6,131,900  NFOs  alongside  these  releases,  as  well  as 
stored proof JPG files and other metadata. Searches of this very 
large  database  tend  to  take  up  to  four  seconds  to  execute,  al-
though this time increases in proportion to the complexity of 
the query. As this database allows searching of files contained 
within the releases as per the FLAC Scene rules, it can be used to 
determine whether a title is a dupe or not.

Dupecheckers must be linked to the Scene in some way or 
another.  While  releases  are  spread  far  and  wide,  the  critical 
point is that they must harvest their data from topsites in some 
fashion. This may be at a remove; for instance, users on topsites 
may run a script that pulls down the NFO and associated meta-
data  and  then  automatically  uploads  it  onto  a  metadata-only 
dump site. Nonetheless, regardless of whether the dupecheck is 
fed directly by sites or by third-party aggregation, this link to 
the Scene obviously makes such databases a target of interest for 
law enforcement.

 183

warez

This link to the Scene dates to historic dupecheck systems. 
One  of  the  earliest  of  these,  Checkpoint,  was  created  by  Wer-
ner  &  Tardy,  a  single  individual  who  went  by  the  nickname 
werner_t and who was a member of The Council Music Group 
(CMG). Checkpoint combined several existing Scene databases 
to underpin its system. These included dupelists from topsites 
themselves and lists compiled by the users Werner, Elvin, and 
Winterhawk. In 1997 the database sizes ranged from 2MB to 7MB 
but are undoubtedly much larger in the present day, given that 
metadata and images are usually now stored in dupecheckers. 
The  note  that  the  “Site-Lists”  are  updated  “EVERY  HOUR,” 
shown in Figure 11’s screenshot of Checkpoint from 1997, indi-
cates that the update mechanism is drawing on sites themselves.
Riskily, Checkpoint and other dupecheckers sat and still sit 
on  publicly  accessible  domain  names.  In  its  public  acknowl-
edgments, consider that a CMG NFO from 1999 listed “WWW.
DUPECHECK.COM” and “WWW.MP3CHECK.COM.” The In-
ternet Archive’s stored copies of these pages yield to the user a 
selection process where they can choose to connect to a Euro-
pean or American source for the dupechecking, again indicat-
ing that there is some link to a topsite behind the scenes. For 
instance,  in  the  NetMonkey  weekly  courier  report  of  the  site 
dupe command that is embedded in glftpd, when lester notes 
that “most anyone in the [S]cene can go through and site dupe 
and if they are around long enough they will recognize dupes 
without even having to search real hard.”70

glftpd  has  a  built-in  dupechecker  that  indexes  all  materi-
al  uploaded  and  that  allows  users  to  search  it.  As  the  manual 
states,  this  command  “[s]earches  the  dupe  database  (ftp-data/
logs/dupelog)  for  a  match.  Searching  a  big  database  can  take 
quite  some  time  so  please  be  patient.  Do  NOT  include  wild-
cards!  This  will  only  search  for  directories!”71  Notably,  these 

70  lester, “Deep Thoughts,” Netmonkey Weekly Report (nwr17.txt), August 16, 

1998, DeFacto2.

71  greyline, “glftpd-LNX-2.04_1.0.1e-glFTPD TLS README (2+deb7u3_x86_
docs/README.TLS.txt),” mewbies.com, 2014, http://mewbies.com/glftpd-
LNX-2.04_1.0.1e-2+deb7u3_x86_docs/README.TLS.txt.

184

organization

latter  limitations  are  significant  and  would  not  help  with  the 
need for file-level searches. It is also the case that not every site 
will have every release. A local search will only yield a subset of 
Scene releases. It is for this reason that third-party aggregating 
dupecheckers are created. Some courier and release charts even 
list the publicly accessible dupechecker as the source for their 
work. For instance, the Front Line Release Report notes that “the 
only  source  i  use  to  create  these  stats  is  da  well  known  dupe-
check  system  (www.dupecheck.com).  this  duper  is  one  of  the 
most accepted in da scene, so i think its the best way to calculate 
the stats.”72 The decentralization of the Warez Scene and the lack 
of any official dupechecker poses real problems for participants. 
In another example, the Unbiased DOX Report points out, in its 
July 2005 issue, in a comment on Caterpillar_Construction_Ty-
coon_NoCD_Crack-TNT, that “there could be a prior NoCD by 
INDUCT, as one is listed in a dupechecker. However, it could 
be a fake dir, since only 1 out of 4 dupecheckers showed it. And 
it is not on any sites anywhere; we thusly ignore it!.”73 That is to 
say that even the weekly reporting systems suffer from a lack of 
reliable dupechecking.

Dupecheckers, therefore, could prove themselves to be fertile 
ground for law enforcement efforts. Given that the construction 
of a dupechecker is not itself illegal, as a mere documentary ef-
fort toward not infringing copyright, it seems possible that law 
enforcement agents could volunteer to establish a dupechecker 
and then to snoop on individuals who participate. This appears 
to be the case for werner_t’s dupecheck. On May 2, 2004, a user 
claiming to be werner_t posted to the ISO news forum, a thread 
that reads as follows:

i have not shown my face on here for quite some time (and 
never with my true nick).

72  dustie, “some little notes,” Front Line Scene Release Report (frontline_

week_010.txt), July 7, 1999, DeFacto2.

73  Lamer, “TNT,” The Unbiased DOX Report (DR200510.TXT), July 11, 2005, 

DeFacto2.

 185

warez

Figure 12. Th  e ASCII Art Logo of the Nuke Council by mR n0v08.

but over the past 9+ years i have ran the [S]cene dupecheck 
(#dupecheck on efnet and linknet as well as the old public 
dupe checker @ [URL].

I was contacted about 6 months ago regarding the bnc.us 
domain and the activities of dupeXXX bots on the irc net-
works. I have cooporated with the authorities in question, 
and ok’d advanced logging of the irc channels.

i dont want to alarm too many [S]ceners, as there is only 
so much info that may be obtained from your hostname/ip 
address once connected to the irc servers.

186

organization

as it stands i was the sole operator of the dupecheck data-
base, and quite honestly i never really understood why the 
[S]cene trusted me so much.

anyways, its been a great 10+ years.

peace

werner74

Although the impact of this admission remains unclear, it ap-
pears to indicate that law enforcement efforts actively log dupe-
check activities, knowing, as they do, that this is one of the ma-
jor weaknesses in decentralized Scene infrastructure.

nukes and nukers

The release rule standards, coupled with dupecheck procedures, 
make for an environment of quality control. It is a space with 
strict  determinations  on  what  is  allowed,  which  is  of  course 
ironic given the illicit nature of the environment and its very rai-
son d’être. Yet how is this enforced? In this wild west of a world, 
how can participants, who have already shown themselves to be 
lawbreakers in broader society, be compelled to behave accord-
ing to codes of conduct and rulesets?

The answer is a system known as nuking. To nuke a release 
means  to  mark  it  as  bad.  Nukes  are  enforced  at  the  site  level. 
File Transfer Protocol Daemons (FTPDs), such as glftpd, contain 
a  built-in  site  nuke  command  that  staff  can  use  to  mark  a  re-
lease. Nukes also come with multipliers. That is, when a release 
is marked as nuked 1×, the user who uploaded the release will 
lose the credit they gained, but they will break even. If a nuke 
comes with a higher multiplier, the user will lose more than they 
gained from the upload. At the site level, a nuke of 3×, for in-

74  werner, “FLT Busts,” Theisonews, May 2, 2004, https://www.theisonews.
com/forums/index.php/topic,117995.msg1559546.html?#msg1559546.

 187

warez

stance,  would  mean  that  the  uploading  user  would  lose  three 
times the credit of their upload size.

There are various reasons for nukes, some of which pertain 
to rules on individual sites, while others are Scene-wide nukes. 
On individual sites, reasons for nuking can be the preferences 
of site administrators. For instance, if a site specifies that only 
particular  genres  of  music  are  allowed  to  be  uploaded,  then  a 
local nuke can be applied to the release to penalize the courier 
or release group who uploaded a contraband item. A severe vio-
lation  of  the  rules  (e.g.,  uploading  child  pornography,  reveal-
ing  the  site  name  to  others,  leaking  details  of  the  site,  behav-
ing in an insecure way, and autotrading) can also result in the 
user losing their site account. At times, other site operators will 
also  be  notified  of  these  serious  infractions,  which  result  in  a 
SceneBan. That said, it is difficult truly to enforce a Scene-wide 
ban.  As  users  are  identified  only  by  pseudonyms  and  handles 
and can adjust their ident, nicknames, and even hostnames at 
will, it is tough to correlate one user with another. That said, to 
build one’s standing from zero, having been banned would be 
a tall order indeed. Other nukes are Scene-wide. For instance, 
a nuke for reasons of duplication will apply on all sites, unless 
the release is marked as internal. Likewise, non-working cracks, 
bad  vinyl  rips,  poor  video  quality,  and  so  on  are  all  problems 
about the release, rather than pertaining to individual site rules. 
In these cases, the nuke is usually announced in a pre-channel 
and duplicated down to the site level.

The  need  for  Scene-wide  coordination  of  nuking  has  led 
to the emergence of so-called NukeNets. Using names such as 
“Nukleotide,”  “Nuclear,”  “SheepNet,”  “ZoNeNET,”  and  “Local-
NET,” these networks are trusted to nuke releases simultaneous-
ly across a number of sites when Scene-wide nukes come into 
effect. As you might expect, these networks compete to be the 
best and fastest at ensuring accurate, timely nukes.

188

organization

First formulated in 2008, NukeNet conduct is determined by 
and set out in the Nuke Council Rules.75 This document states 
that “The Nuke Council is a coalition of nuke networks work-
ing  together  to  ensure  nukers  bias,  nukewars  and  many  other 
problems that plague the nuke scene become a thing of the past. 
It is our goal to create a universally accepted and proper nuking 
environment that adheres to basic rules agreed upon by all who 
sign this document.” Among other things, this document speci-
fies a precise format for issuing nukes to ensure a standardized 
log of record. For instance, the document states that duplicates 
should use the format “dupe.GRP.YYYY-MM-DD (do not use 
sameday)”  while,  say,  out-of-sync  errors  in  video  files  are  to 
be tagged with “out.of.sync (correct timestamps must be used 
see sec 1.3).” Perhaps most importantly, the general rules of the 
Nuke Council set out the conduct of nukers and NukeNets. For 
instance, the document specifies that a nuker “may NOT nuke 
with personal opinions/comments” and “may NOT nuke with 
profanity in the reason.” Reiterating this first point, it is stipulat-
ed that “[a]ll nukes MUST be valid, nuking with a bias is strictly 
forbidden.” The main reason for these rulesets is the presence of 
so-called nukewars.

According  to  the  Nuke  Council  rules,  Nukewars  are  the 
cases where a release “has been nuked or unnuked 4 or more 
times.”  Such  a  nukewar  typically  happens  when  nukers  disa-
gree or the evidence for a nuke is contentious. For instance, the 
rule that a nuker “may NOT nuke mp3’s for being re-encoded 
without  substantial  proof ”  is  prone  to  subjective  interpreta-
tion. What counts as substantial? Who judges? In short, just as 
Scene rulesets acted as laws, the nuke rules act as principles of 
allegation,  prosecution,  trial,  and  conviction. They  set  out  the 
terms on which the enforcement principles will be applied and 
provide basic standards of fairness in the application of penal-
ties.  Nukewars  also  sometimes  occur  when  nukers  are  unable 

75  Most of this section comes from SheepNet et al., “Nuke Council Rules 

(nfo_2008_NC.nfo),” Scenerules.org, November 8, 2008, scenerules.org. 
Unmarked citations should be considered to reference this document.

 189

warez

precisely to identify the timing of a release. The result is confu-
sion over which release is a duplicate. The precedent for when 
releases are pred in the same second as one another is that both 
releases  will  be  allowed,  showing  how  truly  competitive  these 
situations are.76

As might be expected with the formation of different NukeN-
ets and groups, a set of competitive practices has emerged among 
these  rival  factions.  As  a  result,  there  are  prohibitions  against 
stealing the work of an enemy network. We can see this in the 
Nuke Council document, which stipulates that “[s]tealing nukes/
unnukes is STRICTLY FORBIDDEN, if discussed on a network 
it  may  not  get  nuked  on  a  different  network  unless  nuker  (or 
the one who gave notice of the nuke) gives permission, this also 
applies to NUKE-REQ’s that are echoed to only one network.” 
Groups of nukers compete to show themselves as the best arbi-
ters of quality and work to become known for finding the most 
flawed releases. If a nuke group or net finds a valid nuke reason, 
it  is  forbidden  for  other  NukeNets  to  appropriate  this  reason-
ing and propagate it through their systems. Of course, individual 
site nukers may take the reason and duplicate it, but automatic 
nuking by other networks is prohibited, thereby introducing a 
competitive element into nukes. NukeNets also hold themselves 
to a high standard and work to ensure that bad moderators are 
quickly removed: “[b]ad nukers (multiple time offenders) will be 
added to the council ban database, which will permenantly [sic] 
ban the user from all council member networks.”

Nukes  are  a  controversial  topic.  Several  Scene  magazines 
have discussed them over the years. Of particular significance 
is lester’s article in the NetMonkey Weekly Report #17, where he 
decides to write about nukes because “in the past week I have 
experienced  quite  a  few,  how  shall  I  put  it,  complete  fucking 
morons trying to nuke? (I think that covers it).”77 For lester, the 
position of nuker is to be considered separate from other roles. 

76  See “UNNUKE fine_pred.same.second.so.both.rls.are.fine/ZoNeNET” in a 

pre-db such as srrDb.
77  lester, “Deep Thoughts.”

190

organization

It requires people who are free of external, competing interests: 
“[y]ou want,” he writes, “unbiased, experienced, and levelheaded 
people to nuke for you.”78 He goes on to claim that this explicitly 
excludes couriers because they have a motivation in nuking re-
leases that other traders have transferred: “[s]o right off the bat 
you have to say no traders get nuke, why does someone being 
#1 qualify them to nuke properly? It doesn’t, most of them just 
mirror another sites [sic] nukes anyways. And why do traders 
want nuke so bad anyways? Because it can enhance their trading 
position. Yes traders are that pathetic and competitive:).”79

The issue of bias is not easy to exclude, as Lester concedes: 
“[s]o you want someone with knowledge, but without bias. This 
is virtually impossible, because the average Joe who isn’t in any 
group or has ANY feeling on any particular group, isn’t going 
to know jack shit about what to nuke.”80 lester’s solution to the 
issue of bias is itself, however, slightly problematic. He suggests 
a list of people who can be trusted and have experience but can 
act dispassionately. The challenge is that the list includes lester 
himself: “there’s some options, you find people who have been 
nuking  for  a  long  time,  obvious  choices  are  Winterhawk/Jess/
Myself,  and  anyone  who  has  been  around  that  has  done  this 
kind of thing long enough where they know wtf is going on.”81 
lester  claims  that  these  people  are  as  unbiased  as  is  possible, 
given their group memberships, but he does not comment on 
the fact that he has immodestly recommended himself: “[n]ow, 
even these people are in groups, and have their own preferences 
to who wins, but in my experience they are fair and do not nuke 
to let their guys win or not nuke something because that group 
upped it, etc. etc. …”82

There  are  two  other  complaints  about  NukeNets.  As  with 
any  top-down  imposition  of  rules  and  authority  in  the  Scene, 
the first is that the nuking standards set by the Nuke Council 

78  Ibid.
79  Ibid.
80  Ibid.
81  Ibid.
82  Ibid.

 191

warez

are “just some master control program by networks not doing 
any real release work for the [S]cene.”83 This is the flip side of 
lester’s complaint. Namely, if siteops employ dedicated nukers, 
who  are  not  part  of  any  group  or  recognized  as  longstanding 
members of the Scene, they will not be respected in their role 
as nuker. The fundamental issue here is one of authority to nuke 
and to enforce the rules. Just as judges in broader society must 
derive their authority from a combination of legal expertise and 
an  appointment  process  linked  to,  but  independent  of,  other 
branches of government, the system of nuking requires respect 
and authority for it to work.84

The  second  complaint  pertains  to  site  security.  To  enact 
Scene-wide  nukes,  it  seems  that  NukeNets  have  accounts  on 
many sites. While it is clear that in some site systems, local nuke-
rs copy information from NukeNet echo or announce IRC chan-
nels to the local site’s nuke database; in other cases, the Nuke-
Nets  themselves  have  accounts  on  the  sites.  The  dissenter(s) 
who authored the critique of the official FLAC Scene rules docu-
ment, for instance, decry the creation of centralized rings and 
databases  of  sites:  “[t]he  worst  thing  is  that  those  individuals 
created  decent  siterings  and  a  database  with  all  [S]cene  sites 
listed.”85 Likewise, this commentator adds, “[i]f one big ring is 
infiltrated and busted, a whole part of the [S]cene is shut down! 
GREAT! AGAIN GET A BRAIN! Or imagine this database(s) 
get leaked!?”86

While  this  grousing  document  does  not  specifically  men-
tion  NukeNets,  some  of  the  measures  it  mentions  pertain  to 
securing  sites  and  sharing  information  about  bad  users.  It 

83  “Invalid Official FLAC Standard Rules V3.0 (INVALID_OFFICIAL_FLAC_

STANDARD_RULES_V3.0-SCENENOTICE.nfo).”

84  For more on the intricacies and recent development of juridical selection 
in the context of the UK, for instance, see Erin Delaney, “Searching for 
Constitutional Meaning in Institutional Design: The Debate Over Judicial 
Appointments in the United Kingdom,” International Journal of Constitu-
tional Law 14, no. 3 (2016): 752–68.

85  “Invalid Official FLAC Standard Rules V3.0 (INVALID_OFFICIAL_FLAC_

STANDARD_RULES_V3.0-SCENENOTICE.nfo).”

86  Ibid.

192

organization

thus seems clear that there is a NukeNet-like component here:  
“[t]o hide their missing operating system skills and understand-
ing of Linux, programming languages and everything you need 
to  secure  a  server  probably  they  even  invented  an  IP-banning 
system  that  forcing  couriers  and  groups  to  drop  all  sites  that 
are  rented/colocation  or  with  setups  not  common  for  their 
understanding.”87 In other words, NukeNets and other common 
security systems that have slots on multiple sites, in this allega-
tion, pose a security threat.

The author certainly has a point. Any centralization within 
the Scene carries with it additional risk. NukeNets that hold ac-
counts on a range of sites present themselves as targets for law 
enforcement  action,  leading  to  the  discovery  of  a  whole  sub-
set  of  topsites.  On  the  other  hand,  this  constitutes  a  trade-off 
against  convenience  as  it  does  with  all  matters  of  security.  As 
lester puts it, “what is a poor siteop who doesn’t want to spend 
his time nuking everything to do?”88

local site rules

All  rules  in  the  Scene  and  nukes  are  eventually  enforced  and 
enacted  at  the  site  level. The ReScene  archive  provides  topsite 
rule NFOs that sample the types of laws and enforcement preva-
lent in the Scene.89 The number of available topsite rulesets is 
far fewer than other types of Scene artifacts, but those that do 
exist  in  the  archive  document  the  rules  of  the  sites  ANZ,  HS 
(“HyperSpace  Unit”),  and  a  suspected  Hungarian  site,  whose 
name I do not know.

All  sites  have  one  basic  rule:  “[n]ever  talk  about  this 
site.”90  There  is  also  a  set  of  privacy  rules  that  are  common 
to  all  rulesets:  “[d]o  Not  give  any  info  about  Axx/Chan,”  and  
“[d]o not talk about IRC chans.” In other words, as in the Chuck 

87  Ibid.
88  lester, “Deep Thoughts.”
89  “Topsite Rules,” ReScene, 2020, http://rescene.wikidot.com/topsite-

rules#toc4.

90  The below material all draws on the topside rule documents found at ibid.

 193

warez

Palahniuk novel and film Fight Club (1996, 1999), the number 
one rule of all sites pertains to security and the need to keep a 
low profile. That this is the case hardly needs to be said. None-
theless,  it  is  reiterated  throughout  the  Scene.  Some  sites  have 
additional security requirements that go beyond the basics. For 
example, on HS, if one does not “use BNC @ chan” — that is, use 
a bouncer to connect to the channel — one will be deleted from 
the site. On some sites, there are also rules that prohibit trad-
ing to FXP boards: “[d]o not trade to FXP boards” on penalty of 
“DELUSER.” This is a security principle. By instructing the site 
to conduct a site-to-site transfer to a hacked box, anyone inves-
tigating the FXP board Scene and its hacked pubstr0s (covered 
in the previous chapter on FXP Boards) could find themselves 
in  possession  of  a  topsite  IP,  enabling  them  to  track  it  down. 
This principle, generally enshrined among Sceners, is meant to 
protect the topsite Scene from the dangerous, hacking activities 
of FXP boards.

There is also a set of meta-rules that pertain to the circum-
stances of arbitration. Users learn that “THE STAFF CAN DE-
LETE YOUR ACCOUNT AT ANY TIME” and that, on pain of 
“DELUSER,” one should “NOT COMPLAIN ABOUT NUKES.” 
One should also not “ask for leech or credits” or “beg for cred-
its,  money,  or  weed.”  One  should  never  “ASK  FOR  EXTRA 
LOGINS.” These rule-setting elements yield, in a sense, the me-
ta-judicial  qualification  of  site  membership.  They  provide  the 
rules that pertain to disputing the rules. These statements map 
the  terrain  of  understanding  the  rules’  enforcement  and  what 
it means — in a social contract — to be a site member. Arguing 
with the law, this rule says, is futile and grounds for termina-
tion of that contract. In this same category of meta-law is the 
penalty of deletion if one receives “15 NUKES a week.” A set of 
minor infractions amount, in their totality, as equivalent to one 
serious, deletable offense. In such a rule, it is not clear whether 
Scene  nukes  (which  are  beyond  the  ability  of  racers  to  deter-
mine) versus local site nukes (which are violations of the rules) 
count differently. Nonetheless, “[g]eneral stupidity,” it is noted, 
“will not be tolerated.”

194

organization

Sites  also  specify  the  rules  of  conduct  for  racing.  For  in-
stance, one must “[b]e on chan, at least while racing,” at the risk 
of a 5GB penalty. One must also not delete any files after a race 
is “HALFWAY” complete, on at least some sites. Different sites 
have different policies on many matters of racing. For example, 
on some sites, “DUAL UPLOAD in same dir is allowed,” where-
as it is not clear that this was the case on other sites. There are 
also different pre-time limits. Some sites stipulate, for instance, 
that there is a “[m]ax [of] 5 minutes after PRE” for any newly 
transferred release. Others have a blanket statement that “PRE-
TIME [is] 20MINS IN ALL ENGLISH SECTIONS.” These rules 
on  racing  and  timing  enforce  the  parameters  of  competition. 
Sites do not want to be in a situation where users upload mate-
rial that is several hours old. Therefore, they only allow material 
released  within  a  specific,  very  narrow  time  limit. That  this  is 
determined in minutes gives a flavor of the speed and level of 
competition here involved. Users are further told that they must 
“COMPLETE UPLOADS WITHIN 3 HOURS OF STARTING,” 
ensuring that races do not drag out over extremely long periods. 
It is also often specified that “LEECH IS NOT FOR TRADING.” 
User accounts that are not using a ratio — and thus have unlim-
ited credits effectively — are not to be used to build credits on 
other sites.

Other  parameters  of  competition  are  also  apparent  in  the 
site rules. Users must, for example, “UPLOAD SFV, NFO AND 
SAMPLE FIRST.” This changes the dynamics of a race. The in-
dividual  who  creates  the  race  or  release  folder  and  begins  the 
transfer  must,  under  these  parameters,  upload  three  minor, 
small files first. The SFV, as noted elsewhere, contains the check-
sums of the files in the release. It allows the site’s zipscripts to 
anticipate the files that will be received and verify their integ-
rity  when  uploaded.  The  NFO  file  contains  information  about 
the release. The sample is, literally, a sample of the video, which 
demonstrates the quality of the encoding and the nature of the 
movie. These three files are small. They are not likely to result 
in  any  significant  credit  gains.  However,  due  to  the  nature  of 
FTP and  FXP, uploading a file contains several commands that 

 195

warez

take time to issue to both servers. In a server-to-server FXP, both 
servers  must  then  open  a  channel  between  them  by  involving 
Transport Layer Security (TLS) negotiation, which adds seconds 
to the clock. There are significant disadvantages to being the per-
son who initiates a race. In addition to the “mkdir” command 
(which creates the directory), the first three files transferred are 
not likely to help the user build credit. Therefore, these princi-
ples, while potentially necessary, add a curious, strategic angle to 
couriering and racing. In an MP3 release, where there may only 
be an SFV, an NFO, and one small MP3 file, a courier who starts 
the race may get no credits for the upload if they have to transfer 
the SFV and the NFO first. Waiting until someone else has created 
the directory and the SFV, and then transferring the content file 
just as the initial racer begins the NFO, is likely to be a winning 
strategy.  To  pull  this  off  requires  a  combination  of  guesswork 
and cunning. Such a strategy requires traders to develop their 
clients in such a way to help with this goal. For instance, a client 
may only join a race once someone else has started, unless the 
release is approaching the pretime limit. Such a client could, at 
the 2:50-mark, begin a race itself if nobody else has started it. 
This gives just a taste of the tricky dynamics of racing.

There  are  also  requirements  of  users  concerning  inactivity 
and pruning. For example, the rule that one must “NOT BE IN-
ACTIVE FOR MORE THAN FOUR WEEKS” is a deletable of-
fense on one site. Others have even stricter limits. For instance, 
on ANZ, “[u]ser[s] without an excuse is [sic] idle longer than 
7  days”  are  deleted. These  enforce  Scene  activities  as  a  crucial 
part of a user’s working week. Such rules send a clear message: 
if you are not willing to make a firm commitment to the Scene, 
logging  in  every  week,  participating  in  site  channels,  trading 
weekly, then you are not welcome on the site.

This inactivity also has a second component: low activity. On 
ANZ, the “[t]op 10 Trader[s] are Save[d] for the next Month.” 
Those  in  the  top  ten  monthup  (the  highest  scoring  uploaders 
in any monthly period) retain their accounts. Anyone who falls 
outside of this group is offered a stark choice: “the other -150gig 
at  the  end  of  [m]onth  or  delpurge  you  [d]ecide.”  That  is,  any 

196

organization

trader  who  is  not  in  the  top  ten  must  decide  whether  to  lose 
150GB of credits on the site or to be permanently and irrevoca-
bly deleted. If a clearer indication of enforced competition were 
needed, it would be hard to find. The message here is: partici-
pate and compete or lose your slot. It is unclear what would hap-
pen to users who do not have 150GB to lose. While glftpd and 
other daemons do have support for negative credits, it is likely 
that such a stance would not be tolerated for any lengthy period 
by siteops.

New users also face a brutal challenge in being added to sites 
such  as  HS.  This  site  specifies  that  “[t]rial  is  7GB  first  week,” 
or the new user will be deleted. Further, trialers are “NOT al-
lowed to fill REQUEST” (that is, they may not upload releases 
that others have requested). Filling a request would, usually, be 
an  easy  way  for  a  user  with  an  archive  to  complete  their  trial 
period. Some releases will total 7GB, and a trial user with access 
to an archive site could meet the criteria simply by uploading 
this  one,  asked-for  release.  By  forbidding  trialers  from  filling 
requests,  the  site  rules  here  ensure  that  traders  who  join  will 
participate on a sustainable basis in the future. It is made impos-
sible to fluke the trial by filling requests. Not every site has rules 
about the trials of new couriers or users. Those that do ensure 
that users who join fulfill the elite requirements that the site ex-
pects, making it clear that users will need to continue participat-
ing if they wish to retain their slots.

There are also media-specific rules that take the form of sec-
tion demands. These often pertain directly to the content of the 
media, as opposed to the meta-standards of Scene or site rules. 
For instance, in the “XXX” sections of the sites, it is often stipu-
lated that various forms of (sometimes illegal) pornography are 
not allowed: “[n]o Gay, Children, Animals etc.” This is impor-
tant for the degree of criminality of sites, although it is interest-
ing that this rule problematically juxtaposes two illegal catego-
ries against a wholly legal form in many countries (i.e., “gay”). 
Siteops  may  be  willing  to  break  copyright  law  to  pursue  their 
illicit hobby, but facilitating the distribution of videos of child 
sexual abuse, one would hope the vast majority of people would 

 197

warez

agree, is an entirely different level of wrongdoing. Frequently, as 
noted above, the section rules do also specify characteristics of 
the release. For instance, one site specifies that the “MAX SIZE 
IS 1 DVD OR 4 CDS”; on another site, HS, the “[m]ax release 
size is 5 CDs, 1 DVD unless approved.” In addition, particular 
release sources can be allowed or disallowed, which is another 
important reason for storing this information in the release or 
directory name. For example, on HS it is stated that “NO CA-
BLE, SBD, TV, DVB, FM, DAB” releases are allowed in the MP3 
section.

There are also often approval processes for releases charac-
terized as internals. These releases seem to occur when a group 
puts out a release version that would otherwise be a duplicate. 
Potential reasons for this behavior include

•  creating a higher-quality encode, even when the original re-

lease did not break any rules;

•  re-releasing something subsequently popular that went un-

noticed at the time of its release;

•  putting out a release that likely has a broad audience when 

the original release was quite some time ago.

This  can  be  of  merit  when  a  group’s  encodings  are  highly  re-
spected, for instance, or when a media form has a particularly 
lengthy afterlife. An example of this is iNCiTE’s internal release 
of  the  James  Bond  film,  GoldenEye  (1995).  In  the  NFO  for  this 
release, they state that “[t]his speaks for itself. Enjoy the entire 
collection of the legendary 007 James Bond series. We’d like to 
give credit to QiX” — the Warez group who originally released 
the first Scene version of the film — “for encoding the whole set 
a few years ago but feel that it’s time for a new release.”91 Such 
releases, when not released by affiliates onto the site itself, usu-
ally  require  approval  (i.e.,  couriers  may  not  transfer  internal 
releases). Approval may be granted in the case of culturally sig-

91  iNCiTE, “007 GoldenEye 1995 iNTERNAL DVDRip XviD (incite-golden-

eye-xvid.nfo),” March 23, 2005, srrDB.

198

organization

nificant releases or when a work comes to prominence long after 
its initial release (Moby’s 1999 album, Play, for instance, climbed 
the charts years after its first appearance).

Site section rules often have language rules. Although I can-
not tell for sure, it seems that ANZ is most likely a German site. 
Many of its sections specify that “[o]nly German Releases” or 
“germ/engl”  languages  are  allowed.  One  of  the  other  sites  to 
whose rules file I have access is clearly Hungarian, stipulating 
in several sections that “ONLY ENGLISH/HUNGARIAN” re-
leases  are  permissible.  In  this  way,  we  can  see  segmentations 
of the Scene into geographical release clusters. While English-
language  releases  generally  seem  to  transcend  the  geographic 
locations of sites — just as, due to colonial legacies, the language 
itself does likewise — there are micro-Scenes based within each 
country, releasing content in particular languages.92

There are two final areas of sites whose existence we can infer 
from the available rules files: speed test areas and requests. The 
speed test area is, presumably, important for couriers who wish 
to test the routing from various shells and sites. If one is to win a 
high-speed transfer race, it is essential to know which sites will 
yield the fastest transfer to another via FXP or what the routing 
is like from one’s own shell. However, in order not to clutter the 
site, any files in the speed test area that are not deleted will incur 
a nuke penalty, potentially costing the courier credits. “DELETE 
YOUR SPEEDTEST FILES WHEN FINISHED,” thunders one 
ruleset.

The final area that we can understand through reference to 
site  rules  is  the  request  system,  which  allows  users  to  ask  for 
specific  releases  that  are  not  already  on  the  site.  While  I  have 
touched  above  on  the  rules  around  trialers  filling  requests, 
additional  rules  show  how  this  section  works.  First,  request-
ers must use the formal request system. One must “USE SITE 
COMMANDS  FOR  REQUESTS”  and  not  post,  say,  requests 
into IRC channels. This is not a problem in some sites as only 

92  For more on multiple sub-Scenes, see Crisp, “Release Groups & The 

Scene,” 70–71.

 199

warez

certain  classes  of  users  have  permission  to  make  requests:  
“[r]equests only by STAFF.” At the same time, this rule sits oddly 
in tension with others. For instance, the same site that stipulates 
that only staff can make requests also specifies that user must 
“[n]ever ever fill an own request” on the penalty of “DELUSER.” 
It seems odd that a staff member on a site might be deleted for 
filling their own request. In the interests of keeping the site tidy, 
requests  must  be  placed  in  the  directory  of  the  request:  “UP-
LOAD RELEASE DIRECTORY WITHIN REQ- DIRECTORY.” 
Likewise, to keep the site clean, on some sites, “[r]equests are 
removed if not filled 7 days after request.” This ensures that there 
is not an accumulation of requests that remain unfilled. Finally, 
one must mark requests as complete so that others do not waste 
their time searching for something that is no longer required: 
“MARK  REQUEST  AS  FILLED  WHEN  COMPLETE  WITH 
SITE  REQFILLED.”  This  yields  an  ordered  system  of  requests 
that  sit  within  the  same  highly  regulated  framework  as  other 
Scene parameters.

Numbering the rules for future reference is a notable marker 
of the Scene’s quasi-judicial process. Sometimes split into sub-
sections  that  issue  period-delimited  sub-rules,  these  rules  are 
meant  to  be  referenced  and  are  set  in  stone  with  hierarchi-
cally  addressable  content  (for  example:  “as  per  rule  2,  subsec-
tion 4…”). By studying these enactments of Scene rules, we can 
understand  their  actual  enforcement.  I  have  argued,  through-
out  this  chapter,  that  the  Scene  has  developed  a  set  of  shared 
operational  principles  that  are  enacted  as  de  facto  standards, 
stemming from de jure pronouncements that have community 
consensus. In this way, the Scene goes through cycles of inter-
nal legalistic development, based on shared understandings be-
tween participants, that shape how the alternative reality game 
is played. As I showed with the dissent with the FLAC rules, oc-
casionally this consensus principle breaks down. However, over 
time, with this alternation between pronouncement, consensus, 
dissension,  adoption,  nuke-implementation,  and  legal-esque 
framework,  a  system  emerges  that  “just  works.”  It  is  a  strong 
demonstration  of  anarchic  principles  resulting  in  organized 

200

organization

chaos. As we will now see in the following chapter, as with most 
organized societies, the Scene also has its own spaces of artistic 
practice,  as  though  work  (trading)  and  play  (art)  must  go  to-
gether within the game space.

 201

Aesthetics

“Art’s made by artists, but artists are enabled by a scene.”

— David Mitchell, Utopia Avenue1

antagonistic remixes

As I  pointed out in the introduction to this book,  if one is to 
understand  the  motivations  of  Warez  Sceners  in  playing  their 
dangerous game, it is fi rst necessary to grasp the histories and 
cultures from which they emerged. Specifi cally, the Warez Scene 
must be understood within the academic purview of the study 
of  “subcultures.”  In  his  landmark  and  genre-defi ning  study  of 
subcultures,  Dick  Hebdige  wrote  of  the  style  of  underground 
groups as denoting “form as the status and meaning of revolt, 
the idea of style as a form of Refusal, the elevation of crime into 
art.”2 While, for Hebdige, “the ‘crimes’ are only broken codes,” in 
the case of the Warez Scene, this is certainly not the case; there 
is a genuine set of crimes being committed, albeit in ways that 
I contend constitute an aesthetic act. I argue that, like Hebdige, 
we should pay attention to the “expressive forms and rituals of 
those subordinate groups — the teddy boys and mods and rock-

1  David Mitchell, Utopia Avenue (London: Sceptre, 2020), 449.
2  Dick Hebdige, Subculture: The Meaning of Style (London: Routledge, 

2002), 2.

 203

warez

ers,  the  skinheads  and  the  punks — who  are  alternately  dis-
missed, denounced and canonized; treated at different times as 
threats  to  public  order  and  as  harmless  buffoons.”3  This  view, 
originating in the Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies at 
the University of Birmingham in the 1970s, has been contested. 
It  is  also  one  that  prioritizes  the  aesthetic  or  style  as  a  mode 
of resistance in and of itself. I do not go this far and continu-
ally note that the actual illegality of the Warez Scene is core to 
its identity and to any perceived resistance. That said, this does 
not preclude an ongoing understanding of the Warez Scene as a 
subcultural phenomenon in which style plays a key role.4

In the case of the Scene, this analysis of style in the alterna-
tive reality game equates to understanding two differing artis-
tic or aesthetic cultural roots. An important part of the Scene 
I have hitherto only touched upon is its intersection with two 
unique digital art communities: the DemoScene and the ASCII 
art space. It is due to the shared genealogy with the former of 
these two activities that the Scene is called “the Scene.” In this 
chapter  I  turn  to  the  background  contexts  of  the  DemoScene 
and chart a history of ASCII art in a lineage of concrete poetry 
and information aesthetics.

Many of the traditional accounts of the Warez Scene and its 
root in Bulletin Board System (BBS) cultures focus on the libera-
tory power of digital copying. Pirates are viewed misguidedly 
as  operating  within  an  economic  system  in  which  they  view 
themselves  as  “helping  others”  to  get  something  for  nothing. 
This ethos may be true for the development of later peer-to-peer 
(P2P) networks, for example Napster, as Douglas Thomas sug-
gests and the sharing therein.5 However, it has been one of my 
fundamental arguments that this view is mistaken with respect 
to the Warez Scene.

Ibid.
Ibid.

3 
4 
5  Douglas Thomas, “Innovation, Piracy and the Ethos of New Media,” in 
The New Media Book, ed. Dan Harries (London: British Film Institute 
Publishing, 2004), 82–91.

204

aesthetics

To  return  to  the  argument  in  Chapters  One  and  Two,  the 
Scene values originality and the importance of being the first to 
release the “liberated” copy: they see their creations as original, 
pirate material. There is a fundamental valorization of speed but 
also of the creation of a “new original.” Releases embody craft 
and skill, functionality and beauty. The supply routes of a group 
imply elitism and scarce access. As I noted, because the Warez 
Scene  is  directly  descended  from  computer-artistic  cultures 
where programming skill, musical ability, and visual flare were 
key elements of its practice, the Warez Scene should be under-
stood primarily as an aesthetic subculture.

In the first two chapters, I suggested that we might consider 
the Scene’s activities as a form of remix culture. How does think-
ing in terms of remix help us to conceptualize the activities of 
the  Scene,  though?  Across  many  spheres  of  endeavor,  creative 
practitioners have made arguments for the reworking and reuse 
of other, often in-copyright works. As T.S. Eliot put it: “[i]mma-
ture poets imitate; mature poets steal; bad poets deface what they 
take, and good poets make it into something better, or at least 
something different.”6 By this characterization, in a strange and 
perhaps even sick utilitarian inversion of which Eliot would sure-
ly disapprove, we might consider Sceners to be good poets who 
improve the end-user experience by removing the annoyances of 
Digital Rights Management (DRM) and other copy protections.

Nonetheless, this debate about creative reuse runs right up to 
the  current  era.  For  instance,  Jonathan  Lethem,  a  well-known 
contemporary  novelist,  has  written  several  pieces  calling  for  a 
reevaluation of artistic reuse. “Lethem,” writes Joseph Brooker, 
“questions the way that copyright goes as unquestioned as the 
law of gravity.”7 Building on work by Lawrence Lessig and others, 
Lethem  suggests,  as  have  many  others,  that  artistic  practice  is 
continually building on other ideas and silently or not so silently 

6  T.S. Eliot, The Sacred Wood: Essays on Poetry and Criticism (New York: 

7 

Alfred A. Knopf, 1921), 114.
Joseph Brooker, Jonathan Lethem and the Galaxy of Writing (London: 
Bloomsbury Academic, 2020), 16.

 205

warez

appropriating previous work.8 Indeed, one might even suggest 
that there is no such thing as true originality and that all works 
are, in some way, derivative. For example, David Shield’s collage 
work, Reality Hunger: A Manifesto (2010), weaves together many 
other published writing pieces into a new, tapestry form.9

Various sampling music cultures have also been embroiled 
in  legal  battles  over  what  is  “fair”  in  the  reuse  of  other  work. 
These have ranged from the reuse of melody lines from tradi-
tional  music  that  are  nonetheless  held  under  corporate  copy-
right  (e.g.,  Men  At  Work’s  1980  hit,  “Down  Under”)  through 
to disputes over original song authorship (e.g., Procol Harum’s 
1967 “A Whiter Shade of Pale”).10 Perhaps the most well-known 
disputes  have  been  in  hip  hop  music.  In  1991  the  first  lawsuit 
on sampling was decided in court, Grand Upright Music Ltd. 
v.  Warner  Brothers  Records.  While  previous  cases  dealt  with 
sampling and reuse, all other instances had been settled outside 
of court. In this case, though, Judge Kevin Thomas Duffy ruled 
that Biz Markie’s “Alone Again,” a composition from that same 
year that sampled Gilbert O’Sullivan’s 1972 “Alone Again (Natu-
rally),” violated copyright. Further, the judge advocated for the 
criminal prosecution of the individuals involved, noting that

“[t]hou  shalt  not  steal”  has  been  an  admonition  followed 
since the dawn of civilization. Unfortunately, in the modern 
world  of  business  this  admonition  is  not  always  followed. 
Indeed, the defendants in this action for copyright infringe-

8  Lawrence Lessig, Free Culture: The Nature and Future of Creativity (New 
York: Penguin Books, 2004); Lawrence Lessig, Remix: Making Art and 
Commerce Thrive in the Hybrid Economy (New York: Penguin Books, 
2008).

9  David Shields, Reality Hunger: A Manifesto (London: Hamish Hamilton, 

2011).

10  Joel Gibson, “Kookaburra Sits on a Small Fortune: Ruling on Down Under 
Royalties,” The Sydney Morning Herald, July 6, 2010, https://www.smh.
com.au/entertainment/music/kookaburra-sits-on-a-small-fortune-ruling-
on-down-under-royalties-20100706-zy5l.html; “Organist Wins Procol 
Harum Battle,” BBC News, December 20, 2006, http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/
entertainment/6196413.stm.

206

aesthetics

ment would have this court believe that stealing is rampant 
in the music business and, for that reason, their conduct here 
should  be  excused.  The  conduct  of  the  defendants  herein, 
however, violates not only the Seventh Commandment, but 
also the copyright laws of this country.11

Notably, the lawyers in Biz Markie’s case did not argue for any 
fair-use  principle,  although  it  is  doubtful  whether  this  would 
have  been  any  more  successful.  Other  types  of  reuse,  though, 
have been found fair. For instance, in 1994 the Supreme Court of 
the United States heard Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc. This 
case turned on whether the sampled guitar from Roy Orbison’s 
1964 “Oh, Pretty Woman,” alongside lyrics that distinctly paro-
dy Orbison’s own, should be considered a copyright violation.12 
Because the nature of the reuse here was for parody, the court 
upheld the right to reuse. In this instance, the lyrics’ interaction 
with  the  musical  elements  contributed  to  the  sense  of  parody 
and let the samplers off the hook.

To understand when and where sampling is legally permis-
sible, one must look at the social context within which the piece 
is produced and received. Judgments are contextual. There are 
also, in some accounts, different typologies of sampling and re-
use  that  come  with  different  legal  connotations.  For  instance, 
Amanda Sewell produces a taxonomy or typology of sampling 
that  includes  structural,  surface,  and  lyric  reproductions.  Un-
der these high-level headings, she gives percussion-only, intact, 
non-percussion, and aggregate for “structural”; constituent, em-
phatic, and momentary, for “surface”; and singular and recur-
ring  for  “lyric.”  In  the  period  that  Sewell  studies,  there  was  a 
marked drop in surface samples. In contrast, lyric samples in-

11  Siva Vaidhyanathan, Copyrights and Copywrongs: The Rise of Intellectual 

Property and How It Threatens Creativity (New York: New York University 
Press, 2003), 142.

12  Joanna Teresa Demers, Steal This Music: How Intellectual Property Law Af-
fects Musical Creativity (Athens: University of Georgia Press, 2006), 54–59.

 207

warez

creased; hence the effect that legal rulings have on sampling and 
reuse is not a direct inhibition.13

What does this all mean for the analogy of the Scene? The 
outputs from the Scene are not really going to cut any mustard 
for fair use. It is not as though these works “sample” an original 
and create a new work through tapestry. It is, instead, more as 
though they take the original and graft their own smaller sam-
ple underneath it. To continue the musical analogy, this is akin 
to the edit culture of contemporary electronic dance music, in 
which often famous works are taken and have relatively minor 
additions made to them. This form of remix is an inversion of a 
rework, in which instead of massively altering the original track, 
a  more  subtle  approach  to  overlay  and  modification  comes  to 
the fore.

Such  an  inversion  is  also  prevalent  in  mainstream  remix 
work.  An  excellent  example  of  this  is  the  Jason  Nevins  remix 
of Run-DMC’s “It’s Like That” in 1997. A sleeper hit that sold five 
million copies, the remix far outperformed the original single. 
However, Nevins was paid only $5,000 or so for the remix, de-
spite this astonishing commercial performance. The main rea-
son  often  cited  is  that  many  critics  felt  that  the  Nevins  remix 
only added minor details to the track — and details that did not 
necessarily improve it. For instance, Freaky Trigger, which pub-
lishes popular musical criticism on every number-one single in 
the UK, wrote of the Nevins remix that

Jason  Nevins,  encountering  this  bomb-blast  of  a  record, 
decides  it  would  be  improved  by  a  crunching,  unflinching 
house beat. He is wrong. This remix is, admittedly, loud and 
effective, almost as brutal in its unrelenting way as the origi-
nal.  But  it’s  far  less  accomplished  and  interesting.  Its  inane 
additions — the  sped-up  “Run  DMC  and  Jam  Master  Jay!” 

13  Amanda Sewell, “How Copyright Affected the Musical Style and Critical 

Reception of Sample-Based Hip-Hop,” Journal of Popular Music Studies 26, 
nos. 2–3 (2014): 295–320.

208

aesthetics

squeaks,  for  instance — just  disrupt  the  relentless,  overlap-
ping forward motion of the original MCs.14

Indeed,  the  artist  credit  for  the  remix  version  was  “Run-DMC 
vs. Jason Nevins.” Tom Ewing notes that “[r]arely was a ‘versus’ 
more  earned.”15  In  other  words,  this  is  a  remix  context  that  is 
billed as confrontational, one in which the remixer is pitted as 
an opponent against the original and adds his or her own sty-
listic elements, which may not be significant but that nonethe-
less transform the original. This now sounds much closer to the 
media piracy practices of the Warez Scene. Indeed, the analogy 
here is to an adversarial relationship of transformative modifi-
cation, in which the original looms larger than the changes, but 
in which there is, despite this, an element of skill and craft in the 
antagonistic edits. Further, such edits are often not welcomed by 
the original producers. In seeking credit for these antagonistic 
changes, the Scene begins to emerge as an aesthetic subculture.
Nonetheless,  while  I  here  argue  for  an  understanding  of 
the Scene as an aesthetic subculture, it differs from other such 
subcultures  in  some  distinct  ways.  Consider,  for  instance,  Sa-
rah Thornton’s influential study of club and rave cultures. Her 
work probes the disco and dance music scenes, examining how 
a  quasi-economic  exchange  of  “cool”  works  as  though  it  were 
itself  a  currency.  Designating  such  club  cultures  as  “taste  cul-
tures,” Thornton notes that “[c]lub crowds generally congregate 
on the basis of their shared taste in music, their consumption 
of common media and, most importantly, their preference for 
people with tastes similar to their own. Taking part in club cul-
tures  builds,  in  turn,  further  affinities,  socializing  participants 
into  a  knowledge  of  (and  frequently  a  belief  in)  the  likes  and 
dislikes, meanings and values of the culture.”16 To a limited ex-

14  Tom Ewing, “Run-DMC vs Jason Nevins — ‘It’s Like That’,” FreakyTrigger, 
May 4, 2014, http://freakytrigger.co.uk/popular/2014/05/run-dmc-vs-
jason-nevins-its-like-that/.

15  Ibid.
16  Sarah Thornton, Club Cultures: Music, Media and Subcultural Capital 

(Cambridge: Polity Press, 1995), 15.

 209

warez

tent, such an analysis can be carried across to the Warez Scene. 
There  are  certainly  parallels  in  how  club  cultures  manifest  a 
“veiled elitism and separatism,” in which the “majority of club-
bers” define themselves against a “mainstream” culture, which 
itself relies on a non-mainstream culture for its definition.17 Yet 
the fact that the activity of Sceners is illegal and that they must 
congregate  behind  avatars  of  anonymity  renders  the  binding 
of these groups very different, although commentators such as 
J.P.  Williams  have  already  examined  how  subcultures  can  de-
velop across time and space on the internet.18 It is also clear that 
a shared love of media type is not really key to the identity of 
Sceners. Sceners are not film or music lovers, for instance, or, at 
least, they do not usually define themselves by such identities. 
Instead,  the  mainstream  against  which  they  pitch  themselves 
oscillates  between  the  poles  of  mainstream  computer  users, 
who are not elite enough to participate in the Scene; mainstream 
media purchasers, who do not have the access needed to avoid 
paying for software, movies, music, and so forth; and even lower 
levels of software piracy, which are deemed simply inferior to 
the Scene.

As  a  closing  note  before  turning  to  the  DemoScene,  it  is 
worth  pointing  out  that  the  terminology  of  subcultures  has 
been  hotly  contested.  In  recent  years,  the  competing  field  of 
post-subcultural  studies  has  emerged.  Subcultural  studies  de-
marcate style itself as a resistive element, a way in which sub-
cultures distinguish themselves from other groupings including 
the mainstream. The field of post-subcultural studies emerged 
to  contest  the  “romanticism”  of  the  Centre  for  Contemporary 
Cultural Studies (CCCS) at the University of Birmingham, where 
subcultural  studies  emerged.  This  was  a  view  in  which  “radi-
cal potential” lay “in largely symbolic challenges” to a hegem-

17  Ibid., 17.
18  J. Patrick Williams, “Authentic Identities: Straightedge Subculture, Music, 
and the Internet,” Journal of Contemporary Ethnography 35, no. 2 (2006): 
173–200.

210

aesthetics

onic norm.19 A post-subcultural inflection is one in which “the 
potential  for  style  itself  to  resist  appears  largely  lost,  with  any 
‘intrinsically’  subversive  quality  to  subcultures  exposed  as  an 
illusion.”20 Indeed, some post-subcultural approaches have even 
adopted  the  label  “scene”  to  describe  their  field  of  endeavor.21 
Others have been critical of this direct substitution of the term 
“scene” for “subculture,” believing that it has substantially mud-
died the waters: “its use has been very ambiguous, or perhaps 
more accurately, downright confusing.”22

While  it  is  problematic  to  think  that  “scene”  could  be  a 
straightforward  drop-in  substitute  term  for  subculture — the 
latter of which, in the heyday of subcultural analysis, was pre-
dominantly  concerned  with  examining  class — the  term  is  the 
self-selected,  grouping  word  used  by  the  pirates.  Hence,  the 
term “scene” registers a loose affiliation that lacks the precision 
of class-based subculture dominant in the CCCS ideology. There 
are also many strands to post-subcultural theory, some of which 
attempt  entirely  to  jettison  the  CCCS  approach  to  subcultural 
theory and discard them as useless while still analyzing subcul-
tures  themselves.  Other  attempts  seek  to  further  abandon  the 
notion of subculture as a useful paradigm within which to think.
This work adopts the former of these approaches. I treat the 
Scene as a distinct subcultural entity with codes of practice and 
aesthetic  frames  of  existence  (i.e.,  style).  Although  I  treat  the 
stylistic and aesthetic practices as significant and even key ele-
ments  of  practice  within  this  domain,  I  do  not  claim  that  on 
their  own  these  represent  the  elements  of  resistance.  Instead, 
the legal transgression allows us to understand the Warez Scene 
as a space of misguided resistance in its antagonistic remix ed-
its. The aesthetic forms and practices are key to understanding 

19  David Muggleton and Rupert Weinzierl, The Post-Subcultures Reader (New 

York: Berg, 2003), 4–5.

20  Ibid.
21  Will Straw, “Systems of Articulation, Logics of Change: Communities and 

Scenes in Popular Music,” Cultural Studies 5, no. 3 (1991): 368–88.

22  David Hesmondhalgh, “Subcultures, Scenes or Tribes? None of the Above,” 

Journal of Youth Studies 8, no. 1 (2007): 28–29.

 211

warez

the Scene’s demarcation as a subcultural space, which I persist 
in calling an aesthetic subculture, but they are not themselves 
the transgressive enablers. Indeed, it is the complicated legality 
of the artwork components of the Scene that are most curious 
here, with both above-board, legitimate DemoScenes and ASCII 
art communities coming to distinct prominence. Nonetheless, 
in the “art of the crack,” where there is demonstrable skilled abil-
ity among sceners in removing copy protection routines, these 
legal and illicit functions combine to yield a subcultural form of 
resistance that sits at the Scene’s heart.

the demoscene

The Warez Scene is integrally linked to the computer art prac-
tices  and  histories  of  a  space  called  the  DemoScene.  As  Antti 
Silvast and Markku Reunanen describe it,

[t]he  demoscene  is  a  technically  oriented  community  that 
emerged in Europe in the 1980s. Concurrently with the grow-
ing  popularity  of  the  home  computer,  the  members  of  the 
demoscene wanted to distance themselves from the common 
uses  of  computers  such  as  productivity  or  gaming.  Instead 
of utility or entertainment, their interest lay in creative ex-
perimentation […]. They formed an international commu-
nity, eventually called “the demoscene” or just “the [S]cene,” 
once it became aware of its existence. The main artifacts of 
the  demoscene  are  demos  that  showcase  the  programming 
and artistic skills of their creators. Simply put, a demo is a 
computer program that displays a series of real-time visual 
effects combined with a soundtrack.23

23  Antti Silvast and Markku Reunanen, “Multiple Users, Diverse Users: Ap-
propriation of Personal Computers by Demoscene Hackers,” in Hacking 
Europe: From Computer Cultures to Demoscenes, ed. Gerard Alberts (New 
York: Springer, 2014), 151.

212

aesthetics

Much like the Warez Scene, in essence the DemoScene is a male-
dominated  space  for  showcasing  programming,  graphics,  and 
music-making  skills.  The  demos  are  relatively  short,  but  they 
often involve a file-size limit. That is to say that part of the skill is 
working under severe, programming constraints. There are also 
different  competition  categories,  for  example,  at  Finland’s  an-
nual DemoScene party, “Assembly,” that often correspond to the 
hardware on which the demo must run. For instance, there are 
Amiga categories, PC categories, and so on. The National Inven-
tory of Living Heritage in Finland, which adheres to UNESCO’s 
Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Her-
itage, has the DemoScene as one of its protected “objects.”24

The DemoScene collides with the Warez Scene because, early 
in its history, software cracking was not illegal. Indeed, as Ben 
Garrett puts it, “[w]hen nfos were first popularised in the 1990s 
there was no issue with regards to the Feds reading the files. Not 
for profit software piracy was not a criminal act during this peri-
od. It was the signing of the World Intellectual Property Organi-
zation Copyright Treaty in December 1996 by 89 WTO member 
countries that started the change. It gave software the same pro-
tection as other copyrighted literary works and it criminalised 
the act of bypassing copy protection and rights management.”25
In this early phase of legality, software crackers sought credit 
for their work and wished to showcase their skill for their an-
tagonistic  remixes.  To  do  so,  they  often  coded  brief  and  not-
so-brief  demonstrations  of  their  skill,  demos,  that  would  play 
either  at  the  start  of  a  game  or  within  the  key  generator.26  In 

24  Leena Marsio, “Demoscene, Musical Saw Playing and Horsemanship of 

the Roma — 12 New Elements Inscribed on the National Inventory of Liv-
ing Heritage,” Museovirasto, September 4, 2020, https://www.museovirasto.
fi/en/articles/demoskene-sahansoitto-ja-romanien-hevostaidot-elavan-
perinnon-kansalliseen-luetteloon-12-uutta-kohdetta.

25  Roman, “Q&A with DeFacto2: The NFO File,” January 22, 2013, 4, De-

Facto2, https://defacto2.net/file/detail/ac2b81.

26  The best summary to date of the intersections of the Warez Scene and 

the Demoscene is in Markku Reunanen, Patryk Wasiak, and Daniel Botz, 
“Crack Intros: Piracy, Creativity and Communication,” International Jour-
nal of Communication 9 (2015): 798–817.

 213

warez

this way, crackers were able to highlight their skill in the crack 
itself and in the competition to bundle the best demo with their 
work. As Silvast and Reunanen put it, “the game cracking scene 
[…] was the forerunner of the demo scene.”27 Garrett also reiter-
ates this interrelation of the Warez Scene and the artistic Dem-
oScene, noting that it was the former that provided the germi-
nation space for the latter: “[t]he art-scene never merged into 
the warez-scene, rather in the very early 1990s much of the art 
scene spawned from the warez-scene. The split came about from 
artists who had mostly worked for ‘elite’ bulletin board systems 
but either outgrew the warez-scene or just wanted more crea-
tive freedom.”28 This is also linked to cultures of attribution and 
merit that are core both to cracking and to the subsequent Dem-
oScene,  that  is,  “including  your  name  in  the  crack  and  being 
seen as ‘good’” are two sides of the same coin.29 Nonetheless, as 
Reunanen et al. argue, “[t]he visual style of Amiga cracktros had 
a major impact on the aesthetics of future cracking scenes such 
as those of the IBM PC and game consoles. Communicating the 
act of cracking remained the main purpose, and the visual form 
of the crack intro served as an advertisement within the scene.”30
To comprehend the skill involved in demo coding, one must 
know  a  little  about  comparative  file  sizes  and  graphical  pro-
gramming practices. Many contemporary computer games fea-
ture state-of-the-art graphics. However, these games often have 
enormous accompanying file sizes. For instance, Doom Eternal, 
the  latest  in  the  Doom  first-person  shooter  series,  released  in 
2020, required 50 gigabytes of space (approximately 50,000,000 
kilobytes). The 64k category of the DemoScene gives program-
mers  64  kilobytes  total  as  an  upper  bound  for  what  they  can 
submit.  In  other  words,  DemoScene  programmers  in  the  64k 
category  have  781,250  times  less  space  to  work  with  than  did 
the programmers of Doom Eternal (64 vs 50,000,000). For one 

27  Silvast and Reunanen, “Multiple Users, Diverse Users,” 157.
28  Roman, “Q&A with DeFacto2: The NFO File,” 5.
29  Silvast and Reunanen, “Multiple Users, Diverse Users,” 157.
30  Reunanen, Wasiak, and Botz, “Crack Intros,” 808.

214

aesthetics

more comparison, the original version of Doom, written in 1993, 
took 2.39 megabytes of space (2,930 kilobytes).31 In other words, 
DemoScene  programmers  are  still  working  with  forty-five-
times less space than was afforded to programmers creating a 
three-dimensional graphic game in 1993.

DemoScene programmers must work fractally, coding pro-
cedural generation of images, rather than bundling enormous 
texture files and so forth. Of course, since 1993, the application 
programming interfaces that are available to programmers have 
drastically increased in quality. That is, programmers today can 
take advantage of the DirectX and OpenGL ecosystems, which 
handle much of the interaction with low-level hardware, there-
by providing an easier way to render high-quality graphical out-
puts. The contemporary iterations of Doom are also able to use 
these infrastructures, yet they would not, nonetheless, fit on a 
floppy disk.

An  example  of  the  types  of  output  that  the  DemoScene 
creates can be seen in iq, puryx, and mentor’s demo, elevated. 
While  additional  software  was  provided  by  kusma,  skrebbel, 
and  blueberry,  to  get  the  executable  file  size  down,  this  pro-
duction weighed in at a mere 4 kilobytes; that is, sixteen-times 
smaller  than  a  64k  demo  and  12,500,000  times  smaller  than 
Doom Eternal. elevated presents a procedurally generated flight 
over a mountain range, covered in snow-topped peaks, shown 
in Figures 13 and 14. As the authors describe it, with all original 
phrasing preserved, “this a (too) low density flat mesh displaced 
with a procedural vertex shader. there arent any texturemaps for 
texturing, instead texturing (and shading) is defferred and com-
puted procedurally in a full screen quad. this means there is zero 
overdraw for the quite expensive material at the cost of a single 
geometry pass. then another second full screen quad computes 
the motion blur. camera movements are computed by a shader 
too and not in the cpu, as only the gpu knows the procedural 

31  Klint Finley, “The Average Webpage Is Now the Size of the Original 

Doom,” Wired, April 23, 2016, https://www.wired.com/2016/04/average-
webpage-now-size-original-doom/.

 215

warez

Figures 13 &14. screenshots of elevated. Copyright, the authors. Used 
by permission of Iñigo Quilez.

216

aesthetics

definition of the landscape.”32 As this highly technical descrip-
tion indicates, elevated is a complicated mathematical proposi-
tion  implemented  by  skilled  practitioners.  One  of  its  lead  au-
thors,  iq,  Iñigo  Quilez,  has  a  formidable  background,  having 
worked for Pixar (for instance, creating, painting, shading, and 
coding the forest’s grass, moss, bushes, tree canopies and weeds 
in the 2012 film, Brave) and for Facebook’s virtual reality outfit, 
Oculus. It is also notable that the trick here is to offload much 
of the processing onto powerful graphical processing hardware 
(GPU).  “[S]ize  optimizations,”  write  the  authors,  “forced  us  to 
ask you for a pretty decent graphics card.”33

elevated combines sophisticated lighting effects, camera mo-
tion and motion blur, shadows, and lens flare effects, all while 
flying  over  lakes  and  snowy  mountains.  Admittedly,  for  our 
comparison to games such as Doom, in elevated, the user does 
not interact with the mountain scape. Instead, the demo plots 
its own route over the hills and valleys. The demo also has a cin-
ematic, musical soundtrack built-in with sound-to-light visuali-
zation. A virtual synthesizer inside the application, written by 
puryx, plays the score.

In short, elevated creates a three-dimensional world and flies 
through it. Of course, it possesses nowhere near the sophistica-
tion  and  complexity  of  the  three-dimensional  engines  that  sit 
behind third-person shooter games such as Doom Eternal. How-
ever, the sheer ambition and skill of implementing this world in 
such a small volume of code and resource space are staggering. 
Most jobbing programmers would struggle to design something 
of this quality even with no constraints. To operate within such 
confines is nothing short of remarkable. It demonstrates just the 
sort of elite skills and abilities, that few possess, that are treas-
ured by the DemoScene and also by the Warez Scene.

Understanding the ethnography of the DemoScene and the 
etymology of its terminology can help us place the Warez Scene 
within  a  broader,  hobbyist,  computing  phase.  However,  it  can 

32  TBC and rgba, “elevated (elevated.nfo),” 2009, pouet.net.
33  Ibid.

 217

warez

also  help  think  through  various  behavioral  traits  that  emerge 
therein. Key to this notion is the idea of community and per-
formance.  As  John  Irwin  writes,  “the  word  ‘scene’  reflects  an 
emergent  urban  psychological  orientation — that  of  a  person 
as ‘actor,’ self-consciously presenting him- or herself in front of 
audiences.”34 Performance in the DemoScene and in the Warez 
Scene  consists  of  playing  back  one’s  skillful  and  artistic  com-
puter creations in front of others. However, it is as much about 
the hacker ethos as it is about the artifacts themselves.

The mentality of tinkering or working things out by experi-
ment,  as  a  “psychological  orientation,”  is  core  to  this  presen-
tation  of  hacking  that  one  sees  in  the  DemoScene.35  The  ter-
minology  of  “hacker”  here  refers  not  to  someone  who  breaks 
into computer systems (as it did in the previous chapter on FXP 
Boards) but to someone who is willing to hack things apart in 
order  to  understand  them  and,  ideally,  to  (re)build  them.  In-
deed, Gabriella Coleman charts instances of outrage at media 
presentations  of  hacking  as  an  illegal  activity.  For  instance, 
when Kevin Mitnick was described as a hacker in the media for 
his computer and wire fraud, a free-software activist retorted, 
with  an  interesting  inflection  for  the  discussion  in  this  book, 
that “Kevin is not a hacker. He is a cracker.”36 While the term 
hacker was used among hobbyist software developers and those 
who worked within the DemoScene, the term cracker was in-
troduced  in  the  mid-1980s  to  attempt  to  counter  the  negative 
associations  of  the  term  that  began  to  appear  in  the  media  at 
that  time.  As  Coleman  notes,  “[a]ccording  to The  Hacker  Jar-
gon File, crackers are those who hack for devious, malicious, or 
illegal  ends,  while  hackers  are  simply  technology  enthusiasts. 
Although some hackers make the distinction between crackers 
and hackers, others also question the division.”37 This is because, 

34  John Irwin, Scenes (Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications, 1977), 23.
35  For more on this, see Gabriella Coleman, Coding Freedom: The Ethics and 

Aesthetics of Hacking (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2012).

36  Ibid., 16.
37  Ibid. 

218

aesthetics

to quote the individual whom Coleman cites, “[v]ery often the 
same  techniques  that  are  used  in  hacking  2  [the  more  illegal 
kind] are an important part of hacking 1.”38

No doubt, as readers will have noticed, the terminology of a 
“crack” in the Warez Scene pertains to this particular ethos of 
coding for illegality. Software cracking was, at least for a time, 
referred to as “breaking” in the 1980s. As Morton Kevelson puts 
it, “for those unfamiliar with this term, ‘breaking’ a program re-
fers to the process whereby the true hacker disassembles a copy-
protected  program  and  removes  the  original  protective  code,” 
an etymology that he compares to the “activity burglars perform 
in the still of night.”39 Nonetheless, as the term “cracker” arose 
to  describe  nefarious  hacking  activities,  despite  the  fact  it  has 
never caught on in the popular press, it became applied to the 
Warez Scene and the artifacts that it produces.

The skillsets of coders in the DemoScene and crackers in the 
Warez Scene overlap with one another. Consider, for instance, 
that  elevated  achieves  its  extreme  compactness  because  much 
of it is written in assembly language. This allows for precision 
control  of  memory  and  avoids  the  bloat  that  is  introduced  by 
high-level language compilers as they attempt to optimize code 
automatically. Although, it should be noted that in most cases, 
high-level  language  compilers  produce  better  assembly  code 
than  a  human  would  or  could.  Nonetheless,  familiarity  with 
low-level assembly language and memory architectures is also 
crucial to the activities of crackers in the Warez Scene. Being an 
extremely skilled software engineer is core both to crackers in 
the Warez Scene and coders in the DemoScene.

It is also worth noting that the skillsets are nonetheless dif-
ferent. The mathematics of geometry and two-dimensional and 
three-dimensional graphics inherent in creating demos are dif-
ferent  low-level  programming  expertise  to  those  possessed  by 
warez crackers. Instead, what is desired from DemoSceners in 
the  crossover  to  the  Warez  Scene  is  an  appreciation  of  credit 

38  Ibid.
39  Morton Kevelson, “Isepic,” Ahoy!, October 1985, 72.

 219

warez

and the hacking skill that can go into making the coolest demo, 
alongside the pirated software. That said, the usual claimed his-
tory — that  the  DemoScene  branched  out  into  a  purely  legal 
spinoff of the Warez Scene — is contested. As Markku Reunanen 
notes,  “the  actual  story  might  be  more  complicated”  because 
“many groups continued the legal and illegal activities in paral-
lel, cracking games and making legal demos at the same time.”40
It is also true that DemoSceners need to specialize along sev-
eral  different  axes;  it  is  not  all  about  programming  skills.  Just 
as the Scene itself has individuals who fulfill various roles (e.g., 
siteops, nukers, couriers, suppliers, encoders, and crackers), the 
DemoScene requires artists and musicians alongside coders. It 
is a mistake to believe that the DemoScene is all about program-
ming skill, although this remains a core attribute. Musicians and 
artists are appraised by different criteria to their programming 
counterparts but are nonetheless held in high regard within this 
space.  It  is  also  true  that  there  is  no  hard  and  fast  distinction 
between coders and these other groups. The coders must em-
bed  the  graphics  and  music  within  a  compressed  context  and 
ensure synchronization of playback with the rest of the demo. 
In short, the lines between these disciplinary areas are not fixed, 
and there is a team dynamic at play.

The same can be said, in many ways, of release groups in the 
Warez Scene. While certainly individual skill and ability are core 
assets and there is some disdain between classes of users (i.e., it 
is universally accepted that there is more skill to cracking soft-
ware than to being a Scene courier), the Scene is composed of 
pirate groups. Although the ability of individuals is vital, release 
groups, courier groups, NukeNets, dupechecks, and topsites all 
require individuals to work in concert with one another. It is the 
nature of piracy that pirates do not work in isolation, even while 
individual pirates may gain notoriety and fame.

In its intersection with the legitimate DemoScene, the Warez 
Scene finds its artistic and stylistic home. A minimalist aesthetic 

40  Markku Reunanen, “Computer Demos — What Makes Them Tick?” (Mas-

ter’s Thesis, Aalto University, 2010), 23.

220

aesthetics

aiming  for  maximum  impact,  the  DemoScene  showcases  ex-
treme  programming  skills  combined  with  aesthetic  flare.  We 
should  not,  however,  lose  sight  of  how  odd  the  DemoScene 
seems to those outside it. Why would one choose, as a hobby, to 
make small, self-contained, computer graphics demonstrations? 
Similar  questions,  though,  can  be  asked  of  the  Warez  Scene. 
Why would one choose, for fun, to spend hours every day mov-
ing material from one high-speed remote server to another, at-
tempting to do so more quickly than one’s rivals? The answer, 
as ever, is the gamified nature of prestige accumulation within 
an economy-like environment that makes this hard. Given that 
recognition  and  flare  are  key  to  individuals’  standings  in  the 
Scene, the DemoScene’s artistic side, the showcasing spectacle, 
must not be overlooked. However, there is an exciting point to 
be made about the Warez Scene’s aesthetic practices and style in 
terms of subcultural analysis. In traditional subcultural analysis, 
the codes of style are themselves the violation, the act of defi-
ance and resistance. In other words, it is the aesthetic act that is 
the violation.

Within the context of the Warez Scene, there are two ways 
in which demos function as aesthetic illegality that contravene 
society’s  normative  standards.  First,  demos  were  often  part  of 
cracks  and  key  generators  (i.e.,  keygens).  That  is,  demos  were 
often  not  bundled  as  standalone  applications  that  sat  apart 
from the pirated software themselves but were themselves part 
of the distribution. Users saw the demo when they opened the 
keygen — the  illegal  artifact  that  allowed  for  circumvention  of 
copyright protection. In this case, the illegality or transgression 
did not come from the style of the keygen but from the fact that 
it  was  the  skeleton  key  to  the  illegally  copied  software.  At  the 
same time, keygens and cracks were aesthetically styled through 
demos. That is, they exuded a “geek cool” that cannot be over-
looked. These pirate artifacts come with a style of their own.

There is a second stylistic-illicit crossover point in the art of 
the  crack,  to  which  I  have  already  alluded.  Cracks  themselves 
are  an  artform  that  possess  a  particular  style.  Admittedly,  the 
audience  who  can  appreciate  the  elegance,  or  otherwise,  of  a 

 221

warez

crack is small. It is more likely that most users will simply appre-
ciate whether a crack works or not. A small cadre of individuals 
will appreciate elegance and beauty in a crack. It is this toward 
which crackers strive. Exact parallels are not necessarily found 
in  other  areas  of  the  Scene  (i.e.,  music  and  movie  piracy),  as 
there is no skilled equivalent to cracking; although access to an 
elite supply chain may carry similar prestige connotations and 
confer  admiration  upon  an  individual.  Within  the  subculture 
of  the  Scene,  the  aesthetics  of  a  crack  will  carry  prestige  and 
reputational  benefit.  Again,  the  illegality  of  the  artifact  makes 
it  counter-hegemonic  and  disruptive,  not  so  much  the  fact  of 
its  internal  aesthetic  composition.  In  the  antagonistic  remixes 
of the Scene, these elements combine to create an aesthetic en-
vironment  predicated  on  extreme  programming  skill.  In  the 
formation of the legal DemoScene, the Warez Scene created its 
legitimate cousin. However, to this day, demo-esque aesthetics 
remain core to the makeup of the Scene and, in some ways, sig-
nify its transgressive nature.

nfo files and ascii art

Throughout  this  book  I  have  documented  the  structures  of 
the Warez Scene using NFO files. In reading a surfaced archive 
of  documents  for  iNFOrmation,  I  have  been  able  to  piece  to-
gether the practices, histories, and even humor of this subcul-
tural space. NFO files yield insight into topsites, releases, courier 
groups, and scene busts, as I discuss later. Although these files 
are  informative,  a  crucial  element  overlooked  in  much  of  the 
secondary literature41 is that there is also an aesthetic to NFO files 
and their text-based artworks.42 This is to say that while NFOs 

41  Perhaps the exception is Maria Eriksson, “A Different Kind of Story: Trac-
ing the Histories and Cultural Marks of Pirate Copied Film,” Tecnoscienza: 
Italian Journal of Science & Technology Studies 7, no. 1 (2016): 87–108.
42  David Décary-Hétu, Carlo Morselli, and Stéphane Leman-Langlois, 

“Welcome to the Scene: A Study of Social Organization and Recognition 
among Warez Hackers,” Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency 49, 
no. 3 (2012): 368.

222

aesthetics

are information communication tools, groups also encode vis-
ual-textual artwork inside these NFO files, even though they are 
“plain” text.43 This form of plain-text decoration is called ASCII 
(American Standard Code for Information Interchange) art. It 
uses textual character codes to create a visual effect. ASCII is an 
underlying standard that converts a binary, numerical represen-
tati]on into universal character representations, in the same way 
as children might devise a simple code in which A=1, B=2 etc.44
Ironically, given that NFO files advertise activities, the format’s 
extension was first introduced by a group called “The Humble 
Guys” (THG) in 1990.45 The standardization of the file extension 
unified  the  disparate  cultures  of  “phile”  distribution  that  had 
developed throughout the BBS Scene histories and spelled out 
alliances, feuds, and credits.46 As with demo groups, these NFO/
ASCII Art groups competed to be the best in the business and to 
develop  notoriety  for  their  creations.  As  Garrett  puts  it,  these 
groups “earned their reputation at being one of the best groups 
by creating art for the best pirate boards of the time.”47 In paral-
lel to other elements of Scene practice, there is a level of craft 
and skill involved in the work of creating the ASCII Art of NFO 
files, which was, itself, descended from mid-twentieth-century 

43  Although, of course, as Dennis Tenen reminds us, the term “plain text” 

hides a plethora of dangerous assumptions. Dennis Tenen, Plain Text: The 
Poetics of Computation (Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2017).
44  Portions of this chapter were also speculatively ventured in Martin Paul 

Eve, The Digital Humanities and Literary Studies (Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press, 2022).

45  Ben Garrett, “Online Software Piracy of the Last Millennium,” April 27, 
2004, 6, DeFacto2, http://www.defacto2.net/file/download/a53981.

46  For instance, see Knight Lightening and Taran King, “Phrack Pro-Phile 3: 
Featuring: User Groups and Clubs,” Phrack Magazine, June 10, 1986, http://
phrack.org/issues/6/2.html.

47  Garrett, “Online Software Piracy of the Last Millennium,” 6.

 223

warez

Figure 15. BeatMasters International (BMI) NFO from the year 2000 
with ASCII art by hetero/sac.

typewriter art.48 As one report put it, NFO fi les have become the 
de facto “press releases for piracy groups.”49

NFO  fi les  have  changed  form  over  time.  As  Garrett  charts, 
evolutions in the form of NFOs have taken place “both in the in-
formation they conveyed and aesthetic layout,” with the changes 
being  spurred  through  “competition  or  from  a  needs  basis.”50
In Garrett’s historical account, one of the general directions of 
movement  was  the  redaction  of  identifying  information  from 
the fi les. “One early change,” as he writes, “was groups or crack-
ers that listed their BBS phone numbers so they could increase 
their  membership  of  long-distance  callers.  Th  ey  believed  this 
could  increase  users  and  would  improve  the  catchment  and 

48  Alexis C. Madrigal, “Th  e Lost Ancestors of ASCII Art,” The Atlantic, Janu-
ary 30, 2014, https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2014/01/
the-lost-ancestors-of-ascii-art/283445/.

49  Brian Prince, “Tracking the Crackers — A Look at Soft ware Piracy,” 

EWEEK, November 14, 2008, https://www.eweek.com/security/tracking-
the-crackers-a-look-at-soft ware-piracy.

50  Roman, “Q&A with DeFacto2: Th  e NFO File,” 3. 

224

aesthetics

Figure 16. the same BMI NFO fi le transformed into its intended view-
ing format. ASCII art by hetero/sac.

 225

warez

variety  of  uploads  to  the  bulletin  boards.  As  in  the  early  BBS 
days there were no true cross-continental groups, let alone an 
international [S]cene on the PC.” Alongside this editorial func-
tion, however, early NFOs also served a verification role. “Later 
groups,” he writes, “added membership lists and official bulletin 
board affiliations into their NFOs to stop people from claiming 
false association with a group.”51 As criminalization of Warez ac-
tivities grew in the 1990s, the NFOs became increasingly cagey. 
Once “the act of bypassing copy protection became a criminal 
offence, the more revealing pieces of information had gone from 
the  NFOs.”52  Nonetheless,  Garrett  claims,  “even  with  this  self-
imposed security censorship, NFO files still were great tools of 
propaganda for rival groups.”53 For this reason, the artistic senti-
ment and styling of NFO files remained.

When viewed in a standard text viewer, NFO files can appear 
very messy. For example, Figure 15 shows one of these files from 
around the year 2000. As is clear, the file is composed of several 
accented characters not used in the English language. These in-
clude “Ü,” “Ý,” “Þ” and many others.

What may not be immediately clear here is that if one switch-
es the font to an appropriate monospaced terminal style, these 
characters are transformed into blocks, as shown in Figure 16.

While  the  possibly  deliberate  spelling  errors  in  this  docu-
ment, or “ment,” might dissuade some of the literary merits of 
such artifacts, the significant point here is very different. Indeed, 
following the work of Bronaċ Ferran, I believe that these digital 
documents can best be located within a broad history of visual 
and spatial concrete poetry that exhibits both constructivist and 
de(con)structivist tendencies.54

51  Ibid. 
52  Ibid. 
53  Ibid.
54  This section is entirely indebted to Ferran’s doctoral thesis, “Hansjörg 

Mayer’s Typoetic Intervention in Concrete Poetry and Experimental Lit-
erature of the 1960s,” which I am supervising. All credit for anything here 
should be attributed to her while any errors are mine alone.

226

aesthetics

The history of concrete poetry — a form of writing in which 
the  visual  elements  play  a  key,  poetic  role — is  difficult  to  ex-
plain  concisely.  The  terms  of  engagement  are  contested,  and 
the  debate’s  terrain  is  international,  spanning  West  Germany 
to Brazil from the 1950s onwards.55 Concrete poetic form has a 
complex relationship to literary modernism and particularly the 
work of Ezra Pound, from whose work the noigandres journal 
and  loosely  affiliated  group,  the  authors  of  the  “Pilot  Plan  for 
Concrete Poetry,” took their name.56 Key properties of concrete 
poetry include a focus on typography, spatial layout, position-
ing as poetic quality, and some idea of movement and kinesis, a 
“critical evolution of forms” as the Pilot Plan has it.

Core to much concrete poetry are ideas of economy and spar-
sity,  an  aesthetic  that  discards  the  superfluous  in  breakdown. 
Hansjörg  Mayer’s  1965  oil,  for  instance,  resolutely  sticks  to  its 
deconstructing,  minimalist  use  of  three  letters,  repetitiously 
placed within its invisible grid. At the same time, though, there 
is a concurrent, constructivist countertendency of overloading 
at work. This often takes the form of repetition and over-print-
ing, in which typographical elements are overlaid atop one an-
other in the printing process.

55  Some of the better-known background sources that have handled this 
include Mary Ellen Solt, Concrete Poetry: A World View (Bloomington: 
Indiana University Press, 1970); Stephen Bann, Concrete Poetry: An 
International Anthology (London: London Magazine, 1967); Stephen Bann, 
ed., The Tradition of Constructivism (London: Thames and Hudson, 1974); 
Johanna Drucker, The Visible Word, Experimental Typography and Modern 
Art, 1909–1923 (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1997); Johanna 
Drucker, Figuring the Word: Essays on Books, Writing, and Visual Poetics 
(New York: Granary Books, 1998); Johanna Drucker, Graphesis: Visual 
Forms of Knowledge Production (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 
2014); Marjorie Perloff, The Poetics of Indeterminancy: Rimbaud to Cage 
(Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1981); Marjorie Perloff, Radical 
Artifice: Writing Poetry in the Age of Media (Chicago: University of Chi-
cago Press, 1991); and Marjorie Perloff, Unoriginal Genius: Poetry by Other 
Means in the New Century (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2010).
56  Augusto de Campos, Decio Pignatari, and Harold de Campos, “Pilot Plan 

for Concrete Poetry,” in Concrete Poetry, ed. Solt, 71–72.

 227

warez

Such a model for poetry thereby yields a double temporal-
ity,  one  in  which  the  building  and  the  breakdown  are  simul-
taneously  present.  Ideas  of  construction  and  destruction  are 
prompted into temporal translation on the page of the concrete 
poem. Even the final logical endpoint of overloaded construc-
tion (e.g., overprinting to the extent that the page is black once 
more) leads to a form of destruction. When translated into tem-
poral terms by a reader, this dialectical formulation is how the 
concrete poem includes a notion of motion within its otherwise 
static environment.

The NFO file shown above possesses some of the qualities of 
this  temporal  movement  across  the  multiple  display  forms  in 
which it can be accessed. Indeed, as well as possessing the spa-
tial framing layout seen in much concrete poetry that prompts 
the  dialectic,  where  alphanumerical,  typographical  elements 
are  laid  out  in  a  particular  form  on  the  page  for  aesthetic  ef-
fect,  these  digital  artifacts  are  versioned  and  mutable  in  their 
display. The reader can access the form in its textual or graphi-
cal  modes,  demonstrating  the  principle  of  kinesis  attributed 
to much concrete poetry but in a very different way. For while 
Mayer and others were interested in typographical control (e.g., 
the sustained use of the Futura typeface that Ferran notes was 
perceived  to  be  a  highly  neutral  font),  the  movement  of  NFOs 
comes from reader control over display technologies. The text 
moves from its constructivist phase, where ASCII characters are 
visible in their alphanumeric forms, into a breakdown of those 
characters into solid blocks as the correct monospacing font is 
applied. In this movement, there is at once a distinct loss of de-
tail — we no longer know what the underlying linguistic or sym-
bolic representation of the character might be, even though it 
has not changed in its fundamental digital representation — and 
a further construction as the image form of the document be-
comes visible.

In  many  ways,  this  is  the  type  of  metaphorical  slippage 
that Dennis Tenen has charted in his book on plain text.57 It is 

57  Tenen, Plain Text, 23–54.

228

aesthetics

a  model  in  which  the  digital-metaphorical  form  presented  to 
the end user is only tangentially associated with the physicality 
and materiality of the operation. The example that Tenen gives 
is  the  delete  operation  on  a  computer  system.  One  might  as-
sume that pressing delete within one’s operating system would 
lead to the removal of the relevant file’s contents from the hard 
drive. However, this is not actually the case. In many contem-
porary computer file systems, files are stored in at least two and 
sometimes three separate locations. The first, the metadata in-
ode, contains a pointer to the second storage location called the 
indirect block. The second storage location, the indirect block, 
contains two numbers that point to two further locations on the 
disk: a start block and an end block for the file in question. In 
some file systems, the inode directly contains the information 
from the indirect block, hence there are sometimes two stages 
and sometimes three. The file is then actually written on disk to 
the space between these location numbers. This is to say, there 
is a pointer on the disk that directs the operating system to the 
actual physical sectors on the storage device where the file’s con-
tents lie. When one deletes a file, the file contents itself are not 
usually removed from the disk. Instead, the inode is unlinked. 
That is, the metadata for the file is removed, but the actual con-
tents remain on the storage and the space where the file is stored 
is made available for the storage of other files. This means that 
in specific circumstances, it is possible but difficult to recover 
deleted  files.  Over  time,  the  file’s  location  will  be  overwritten 
with new file data, linked to different inodes. Files will also be 
distributed between inodes at different on-disk locations for dif-
ferent fragments of their data.

The metaphor of deletion, often signified by a skeuomorphic 
trashcan  in  the  iconography  of  computer  operating  systems, 
rarely performs an analogous “trashing” of the underlying data. 
Instead, it is more akin to saying that one will empty one’s book-
shelf by crossing out the books one does not want from a list of 
books, only to remove the books later when one has a new book 
to  add.  Certainly,  such  metaphorical  slippage  is  helpful  to  an 
end-user. But few users are aware of the implications masked by 

 229

warez

such metaphorical terminology. One’s files remain on the disk, 
even after you have deleted them.

The NFO is subject to an analogous metaphorical represen-
tation  between  its  layers  where  different  font  overlays  trans-
form typographic blocks into visual versions of the underlying 
characters.  Because  the  format  takes  advantage  of  unique,  ty-
pographic features that rely on the selection of particular fonts 
and highly specific domain-knowledge requirements, elements 
of  the  process  of  metaphorization  become  more  visible  as  we 
shift  between  the  graphic  and  typo-graphic  modes.  Once  one 
knows that certain accented characters in the Unicode format 
are misrepresented as solid blocks when one switches the font 
to  a  monospaced  terminal  layout,  the  perspectival  and  meta-
phorical trickery of the mediating layers are rendered transpar-
ent. Of course, for some readers, this will remain opaque; they 
might not understand why the file can appear in two different 
forms, and the metaphor will continue to function. This is not 
to say that metaphor does not function even when we know it 
is metaphor. It is just that a critical ability to appraise metaphor 
depends on recognition of substitutability.

Further,  there  is  a  history  of  computational  colonialism  at 
work in this double-layered process that can be read out the NFO 
files.  The  characters  that  translate  into  ASCII  art  blocks  when 
used in an appropriate font are all drawn from the non-English 
alphabet. Just as search engines have premised their models on 
the  cultural  assumption  of  the  transcendental,  white  subject, 
and the history of computing has worked to erase women from 
its record, here we see a geographic and linguistic bias to which 
the final chapter of this work will return.58 The acutely accented 
“u” (“ú”), for instance, is a glyph used in Czech, Faroese, Por-
tuguese,  Spanish,  and  Vietnamese,  among  others.  It  does  not 

58  Safiya Umoja Noble, Algorithms of Oppression: How Search Engines Re-

inforce Racism (New York: New York University Press, 2018); Mar Hicks, 
Programmed Inequality: How Britain Discarded Women Technologists and 
Lost Its Edge in Computing (Cambridge: MIT Press, 2018).

230

aesthetics

occur in English. For this reason, this character appears in the 
Latin-1 Supplement of the Unicode specification.

This translation of certain non-English characters to blocks 
is just part of how a longer, computational, linguistic colonial-
ism has emerged in contemporary writing. Another instance of 
this can be seen in the response to the Unicode implementation 
of  the  Ho  language.  In  2007,  K.  David  Harrison  and  Gregory 
Anderson noted in a letter to the Unicode consortium that

[t]he current Unicode proposal (authored by Michael Ever-
son, dated 1999-01-29) is incomplete in its current form and 
notably  requires  consultation  and  fact-checking  with  the 
user community. While it is crucial that the Ho orthography 
be included in Unicode, this can only be done in close con-
sultation with Ho scholars at every step of the process. As a 
practical and ethical matter, we urge the Unicode consortium 
to accept only proposals that emerge from or are formulated 
in close consultation with native speaker communities. To do 
otherwise is to espouse a kind of linguistic colonialism that 
will only widen the digital divide.59

Indeed, one of the basic premises seen in the Unicode specifi-
cation is that English-language, Latinate characters are the first 
to appear in the table, while other linguistic systems are often 
relegated to much higher assignations. Sometimes, as Sharjeel 
Imam points out, these other languages are spread across many 
different blocks rather than in the more concentrated forms of 
the Latin alphabet.60 “Internationalization” here means a spread 
outwards  from  a  “centered”  English  to  other  “peripheral”  cul-
tures, demonstrating a strong Anglocentrism. As Don Osborn 
writes, for example, “[a]part from Arabic, the development of 
the use of African languages in computing and the internet has 

59  K. David Harrison and Gregory Anderson, “Review of Proposal for 

Encoding Warang Chiti (Ho Orthography) in Unicode,” Unicode.org, April 
22, 2007.

60  @imaams, Twitter, November 24, 2017, https://twitter.com/_imaams/sta-

tus/934109280285765632.

 231

warez

been  relatively  slow  for  a  number  of  linguistic,  educational, 
policy and technical reasons” while “a particular problem for a 
number of languages written with modified letters or diacritic 
characters — or  entire  alphabets — beyond  the  basic  Latin  al-
phabet (the 26 letters used in English) or the ASCII character set 
(that  alphabet  plus  basic  symbols)  has  been  the  way  in  which 
computer systems and software handle these.”61 As “an industrial 
standard controlled by the industry,” in Domenico Fiormonte’s 
words,  we  should  be  skeptical  around  “claims  about  the  neu-
trality or impartiality of ” Unicode, a schema that has pretenses 
towards universal character representation.62

The doubled nature of the layering here at once both high-
lights and masks this history. Those from countries using Lati-
nate alphabets who open the text file while using a font that sup-
ports the extended set will encounter characters from Cyrillic 
alphabets, as just one example, and may be perplexed about why 
their screen is full of unfamiliar accented characters. After all, 
the artwork is not clear, as the above image shows, without the 
correct font being used. In this instance, a savvier user will un-
derstand that the problem lies in the intermediating font’s lack 
of support for the extended character set.

To  explain  this  a  little  further:  the  font’s  depiction  of  the 
underlying ASCII character is contingent upon an economy of 
choice.  For  each  character  displayed,  the  font  must  provide  a 
corresponding glyph that the operating system can render. That 
is, the designer must craft an “a,” a “b,” a “c,” but also a “ú.” Given 
that there are thousands upon thousands of characters that each 
need  a  glyph,  often,  font  designers  may  restrict  themselves  to 
a  subset  of  the  complete  Unicode  specification,  selecting  only 
the glyphs that they feel will be commonly used. They may then 
substitute  all  other  glyphs  with  a  different  display  character, 

61  Don Osborn, African Languages in a Digital Age: Challenges and Opportu-
nities for Indigenous Language Computing (Cape Town: HSRC Press, 2010), 
59–60.

62  Domenico Fiormonte, “Towards a Cultural Critique of the Digital Hu-

manities,” Historical Social Research / Historische Sozialforschung 37, no. 3 
(2012): 64.

232

aesthetics

such as a solid block (or different types of block, such as 50% 
grayscale). As the first contiguous block of the Unicode specifi-
cation, Latinate alphabets are far more rarely blocked out. The 
priority is placed upon these characters while the disregard for 
glyphs that are specific to non-Anglophone cultures continues.

In another sense, though, this intermediation of font design 
masks  this  relegation.  If  a  user  goes  straight  into  the  “correct” 
font, they will be unaware that below the surface of the smooth 
blocks lurks this economy of choice in font design. Indeed, it will 
be utterly opaque that the character is anything other than the 
design block as which it appears. In other words, the exploita-
tion of marginalized font glyphs that are apparent in the craft-
ing of NFO files is at once one that hides and highlights colonial 
histories of computing culture, even when this is not apparent to 
those working within the subcultures that produce such artifacts.
There is also another level of intermediation here that can act 
to mask these historical systems. This is because often designers 
of NFO files are working with software that assists them in their 
designs.  A  designer  would  rarely  craft  an  NFO  file  entirely  by 
hand. Instead, pieces of software will attempt to match a set of 
undefined or unspecified, non-Latinate font glyphs to the pixel 
shades within an image. Under this creation model, there is a 
greater obfuscation of the underlying histories because even the 
designer is unlikely to be aware that the shadings that they are 
producing result from undefined glyphs within the font set.

Notably,  the  NFO,  as  its  abbreviated  name  implies,  is  not  a 
poem. However, it is an artifact that contains a textual, aesthetic 
(i.e.,  “literary”)  component  as  a  core  part  of  its  existence.  In-
stead, it is primarily the vessel for the dissemination of informa-
tion about material that is being circulated in contravention of 
civil  copyright  law  and  perhaps  even  criminal  copyright  con-
spiracy laws. Thus, as Jacques Rancière wrote, the “ideal effect” 
of a work that entwines art and politics, or, I would argue, in-
formation,  “is  always  the  object  of  a  negotiation  between  op-
posites,  between  the  readability  of  the  message  that  threatens 
to destroy the sensible form of art and the radical uncanniness 

 233

warez

that  threatens  to  destroy  all  political  meaning.”63 The  NFO  is  a 
documentary object, often poorly written with crude slurs made 
on other groups — “lousy warez rules” is about as mild as it will 
get. At the same time, the artifacts have an aesthetic quality due 
to the ASCII art frames. These are enmeshed within a complex 
play of symbolic and material capital that Alan Liu has framed 
as “cool.”64

Understanding  how  the  laws  of  cool  play  out  within  this 
space requires a little more background social context. Certain-
ly, James F. English has traced how the cultural prestige of prize 
culture works among the big literary prizewinning novels of our 
day.65 Likewise, Ted Underwood has examined the phenomena 
that lead to literary status and prestige over a long period.66 Yet 
what is in it for “hetero ‘sac,’” the originator of this NFO file’s de-
sign? (The individual here is “hetero” while “sac,” “superior art 
creations,” is the group.) Indeed, this work will not be entered 
into any high-brow poetry or design competitions, and it would 
not  win  anyway  if  it  were.  Nevertheless,  the  author  has  taken 
considerable time and effort to craft the logo, understand how 
it will appear across multiple systems, and produce the template 
within which the release group can insert its documenting in-
formation. Why? It seems most likely that “hetero ‘sac’” will have 
some kind of topsite access as a reward for designing the NFO.

However,  this  simple  answer — a  material  reward — is  also 
wrong or overly simple. Those who hold such slots often have 
them across multiple sites and almost all releases end up on all 
sites within a few second of release, that is, the exclusivity of af-
filiation to groups is a matter of minutes or seconds difference 
in whether a site has access to such material. Hence, although 

63  Jacques Rancière, The Politics of Aesthetics: The Distribution of the Sensible, 
ed. and trans. Gabriel Rockhill (London: Bloomsbury Academic, 2018), 59.

64  Alan Liu, The Laws of Cool: Knowledge Work and the Culture of Informa-

tion (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2004).

65  James F. English, The Economy of Prestige: Prizes, Awards, and the Circula-

tion of Cultural Value (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2005).
66  Ted Underwood, Distant Horizons: Digital Evidence and Literary Change 

(Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2019), 68–110.

234

aesthetics

the terminology of subcultures is hotly contested, it strikes me 
that  there  is  a  prestige  economy  of  a  subculture  at  work  here 
that does not translate back into determinate and precisely com-
mensurable, material reward.67 That is to say that the levels of 
prestige  of  design  work  and  the  groups  for  whom  a  designer 
works will determine the quality of the sites to which they are 
given access. This quality has not anything to do with access to 
pirated material. It is, instead, more about the “cool” of the site; 
boasting rights of access and eliteness of status here are seen as 
far more important than actually downloading the material that 
is released.

Overall, then, it seems only fitting to conclude that the artis-
tic subculture of ASCII art falls into the same types of competi-
tive, quasi-economic alternative reality game-playing that per-
vades the other structures of the Scene. It is not true to separate 
the artistic practices from other core practices. The Scene, while 
an alternative reality game, is also an aesthetic subculture.

the feedback loops of digital rights management

The craft, skill, and aesthetics of piracy also feedback into main-
stream  cultural  production.  Indeed,  it  was  never  a  tenable  di-
vision to believe that mainstream producers simply made ma-
terial that pirates then copied. Writers such as China Miéville, 
for  instance,  have  long  noted  how  new,  cultural  artifacts  can 
be generated as a result of “piracy,”68 although one has to query 
whether,  if  one  has  permission  or  the  author’s  blessing,  such 
practices  remain  “piratical.”  As  Adrian  Johns  has  pointed  out, 

67  For a few of the key texts in this area, see Hebdige, Subculture; Thornton, 

Club Cultures; Muggleton and Weinzierl, The Post-Subcultures Reader; and 
Geoff Stahl, “Tastefully Renovating Subcultural Theory: Making Space for 
a New Model,” in The Post-Subcultures Reader, ed. David Muggleton and 
Rupert Weinzierl (New York: Berg, 2003), 27–40.

68  Charlotte Higgins, “China Miéville: Writers Should Welcome a Future 

Where Readers Remix Our Books,” The Guardian, August 21, 2012, http://
www.theguardian.com/books/2012/aug/21/china-mieville-novels-books-
anti-piracy.

 235

warez

when  the  term  “pirate”  was  first  banded  around  to  denote  il-
licit copying, during the early book trade, the interplay between 
copy and original was extensive and bidirectional.69

We  see  the  same  in  innovative  copyright  protection  meas-
ures that modify gameplay in contemporary computer games.70 
That is to say that the Scene’s cracking activities have altered the 
aesthetics  of  computer  games  themselves.  Early  games  in  the 
1990s from Sierra On-Line and Lucasfilm Games, for example, 
required a user to input phrases from a physical manual shipped 
with the game in order to prove that they possessed the material 
correlate — another  example  of  introducing  a  pure,  rivalrous 
scarcity into the digital space.71 A failure to identify oneself as a 
legitimate user altered the gameplay itself in games as far back as 
1988’s Zak McKracken and the Alien Mindbenders. In this title, if 
the user entered the serial key incorrectly five times, they were 
moved to a pirate jail, where they received a severe admonish-
ment for stealing the title.72 Despite debates over the efficacy of 
such  DRM  technologies,  more  imaginative  interplay  loops  be-
tween piracy and content have emerged.73

Take,  for  instance,  the  example  of  The  Sims  4,  a  game  in 
which the player works to build a simulated environment with-
in which their characters can thrive. In regular gameplay, one’s 
characters are afforded the basic decency of having their genitals 
pixelated out when using the bathroom and other activities in a 
state of undress. In pirated editions of the game, however, the 
pixelation spreads gradually to engulf the whole screen, thereby 

69  Adrian Johns, Piracy: The Intellectual Property Wars from Gutenberg to 

Gates (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2011).

70  The definitive study on this concept is Andrew V. Moshirnia, “Giant Pink 
Scorpions: Fighting Piracy with Novel Digital Rights Management Tech-
nology,” DePaul Journal of Art, Technology & Intellectual Property Law 23, 
no. 1 (2012): 1–67.

71  Marcella Favale et al., “Human Aspects in Digital Rights Management: The 
Perspective of Content Developers,” SSRN Electronic Journal (2016): 4.

72  James Newman, Videogames (London: Routledge, 2013), 146.
73  Peter Holm, “Piracy on the Simulated Seas: The Computer Games Indus-
try’s Non-Legal Approaches to Fighting Illegal Downloads of Games,” 
Information & Communications Technology Law 23, no. 1 (2014): 61–76.

236

aesthetics

rendering the game unplayable.74 In other words, the anti-pirate 
mechanism fills the screen with a giant pixelated genital organ, 
presenting a phallic rejoinder to the illegitimate user.

Other  games  have  opted  for  more  subtle  approaches  that 
nonetheless prevent the player from progressing. Serious Sam 3: 
BFE developer, Croteam, embedded an unkillable Adult Arach-
nid “boss” character in the game when a pirated edition is de-
tected.  This  enemy  chases  the  player  indefinitely  throughout 
the game.75 While this may sound like a nightmare scenario, re-
sourceful modders actually went so far as to develop an add-on 
that would deliberately spawn these “DRM scorpions” through-
out the game as a challenge to players.76 This is a strange instance 
where legitimate customers have felt left out from participating 
in the elements of the artform that are directed solely at pirating 
users.77 The list goes on. Grand Theft Auto IV features cars that 
accelerate  beyond  the  pirating  user’s  control.  In  Command  & 
Conquer: Red Alert 2 the illegitimate player’s base would self-de-
struct after a short period of time. In Settlers 3, pirates can only 
produce  pigs,  not  iron.  Croteam’s  The  Talos  Principle  featured 
elevators that would become stuck halfway to their destination 
if one has pirated the game.78 Bohemia Interactive’s “FADE” or 
“DEGRADE” DRM protection is specifically designed gradually 
to destroy the experience of pirates as games progress.79

74  Timothy J. Seppala, “‘The Sims 4’ Turns into a Pixelated Mess If You 

Pirate It,” Engadget, September 5, 2014, https://www.engadget.com/2014-
09-05-sims-4-pirate-pixelation.html.

75  J.C. Fletcher, “The Painful Sting of Serious Sam 3’s Anti-Piracy Protection,” 
Engadget, December 7, 2011, https://www.engadget.com/2011-12-07-the-
painful-sting-of-serious-sam-3s-anti-piracy-protection.html.

76  Ryason55, “DRM Scorpions,” May 11, 2014, https://steamcommunity.com/

sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=259074771&searchtext=.

77  For more on modding cultures, see Tanja Sihvonen, Players Unleashed! 
Modding The Sims and the Culture of Gaming (Amsterdam: Amsterdam 
University Press, 2011).

78  “The Best In-Game Piracy Punishments,” PC Gamer, September 14, 2017, 
https://www.pcgamer.com/the-best-in-game-piracy-punishments/.
79  Nathan Grayson, “Interview: Bohemia Interactive’s CEO on Fighting 

Piracy, Creative DRM,”  PC Gamer, November 17, 2011, https://www.pcgamer.

 237

warez

To end this catalog of creative, video-game responses to pi-
racy, I would like to draw attention to perhaps the most meta 
example of which I am aware, that of 2012’s Game Dev Tycoon, 
produced by Greenheart Games. To be clear, this game is exactly 
as it sounds: it is a simulation of running a video-game develop-
ment studio. The aim for the player is to develop and bring to 
market a set of video games. In pirated versions of the game, the 
user is repeatedly warned that “it seems that while many players 
play our new game, they steal it by downloading a cracked ver-
sion rather than buying it legally. If players don’t buy the games 
they like, we will sooner or later go bankrupt.” The player of the 
pirated edition would then gradually find that over time, they 
would lose money in the game, until they eventually did indeed 
go bankrupt.80

It is not clear whether such creative DRM responses to piracy 
have the desired didactic effect upon players. After all, proper 
cracked versions of video games nearly always emerge eventu-
ally  as  versions  in  which  even  these  humorous  DRM  elements 
have been removed. In the end, developers are always playing 
catch-up against the pirates and can hope only to delay, rather 
than to avoid, the illegal distribution of their games. However, 
I  contend  that  two  key  points  emerge  from  these  instances  of 
gameplay-modifying DRM systems:

1.  that piracy has had an active effect on the art form of these 
works, feeding into them and contributing aesthetic elements 
to their development that would not exist otherwise; and

2.  that certain executable, media forms, such as games and oth-
er  software  applications,  are  particularly  susceptible  to  this 

com/interview-bohemia-interactives-ceo-on-fighting-piracy-creative-
drm/.

80  Patrick Klug, “What Happens When Pirates Play a Game Development 

Simulator and Then Go Bankrupt Because of Piracy?” Greenheart Games, 
April 29, 2013, https://www.greenheartgames.com/2013/04/29/what-
happens-when-pirates-play-a-game-development-simulator-and-then-go-
bankrupt-because-of-piracy/.

238

aesthetics

type of activity in a way that other art forms, such as music, 
are not.

On  this  second  point,  it  is  the  self-executing  nature  of  games 
and software that makes these creative DRM responses tenable. It 
may be the case that this is not generalizable to a broader media 
ecology. Understanding this difference requires a brief foray into 
an explanation of file types. Some computer files are executable. 
They contain sequential instructions that the computer under-
stands  and  can  process.  Other  types  of  files  contain  data  that 
another program can read, such as musical or pictorial data. The 
effect of processing each of these file types is very different.

In  the  case  of  games  and  software,  one  of  the  mechanisms 
that  can  be  used  is  for  the  program  to  verify  its  checksum.  A 
checksum  is  a  mechanism  for  verifying  the  contents  of  a  file. 
Checksums are produced by one-way hashing algorithms that 
essentially  take  an  input  message  and  digest  that  message.  In 
each case, the process is irreversible. A checksum will be rep-
licable for the same input and should feature a low number of 
collisions — cases where different inputs produce the same out-
put. However, it is impossible to reconstruct the input if one has 
only the digest output. For instance, the SHA1 (Secure Hash Al-
gorithm 1) program produces the output “a94a8fe5ccb19ba61c-
4c0873d391e987982fbbd3” for the input “test.” This output digest 
does not contain the data “test,” and so it is not reversible except 
by guessing and by the fact that this is a very well-known, short 
input message. For the present discussion, it is only important 
to know that this hashing process is possible not only on strings 
of text, as I have demonstrated here, but also upon whole files. 
A file can be fed into a hashing algorithm to produce an output 
message that is unique for that file but that will remain the same 
every time the process is run. Even small changes to the file will 
result in a completely different hash.

This  is  useful  and  relevant  because  such  algorithms  can 
ascertain  whether  a  file  has  been  modified.  “Crackers”  in  the 
piracy  scene  work  to  break  the  digital  protection  measures  in 
software and games so that they may illegally distribute the files. 

 239

warez

They do this by altering the software’s logic within the distrib-
uted executable binary. In so doing, however, crackers change 
the checksum of the executable file. Hence, the simplest way of 
detecting an unwanted modification to an executable file (e.g., 
in  cases  where  copy  protection  has  been  removed)  is  to  see 
whether the checksum is the same as expected. If it is not, then 
it is likely that the user is playing a pirated version of the game 
in question.

This is the type of logic that leads to these in-game situations. 
The software checks itself to see whether it has been modified 
and, if so, alters the game states to achieve the desired effects. 
Such  checks  are  often  missed  during  the  first  round  of  crack-
ing because they do not behave like generic, copyright protec-
tion systems that might simply block the program from starting. 
That is, crackers who wish to pirate a game are on the lookout 
for  logic  within  software  code  that  shuts  down  execution  en-
tirely, the most common kind of DRM. They will also be search-
ing for messages that indicate that a piece of code is designed to 
prevent piracy. In the case of logic such as that in Grand Theft 
Auto IV, however, the anti-piracy detection system is cunningly 
tied to an in-game alteration to automotive physics, which is not 
the expected usual outcome of DRM technologies.

Executable  software  can  verify  whether  it  has  been  modi-
fied; however, there is no guarantee that pirates will not, in turn, 
modify the logic that causes these creative responses. The situ-
ation is very different in non-executable media, such as movies, 
music, and pictures. These file formats contain data interpreted 
by  separate  executable  software,  such  as  a  movie  player.  The 
movie player reads the data from the movie file, which contains 
a  frame-by-frame  description  of  how  to  illuminate  each  pixel 
on a screen to produce the illusion of film, and then displays it. 
The movie file itself cannot perform branching logical instruc-
tions, as did the software, and it is instead reliant on third-party 
software to display its contents.

This has far-reaching consequences for piracy’s creative loop. 
For while we have seen a limited number of examples of software 
that has been influenced by the knowledge of piracy, there are 

240

aesthetics

few instances where films and music have had such reciprocat-
ing loops of practice (System of a Down’s 2002 album, Steal This 
Album!, might be one of the few counter-examples in using its 
title to refer to piracy). There are no DRMed films, for instance, 
where the antagonist becomes suddenly unstoppable or where 
a different, less satisfying ending is presented to those who have 
not paid for the movie, beyond deliberate, bad, Scene releases 
by the studios themselves. This is because non-software artifacts 
such as music files rely on DRM implementation elsewhere as a 
generic feature. That is to say that films and music certainly are 
frequently protected by DRM and other technological protection 
measures.  This  usually  works  by  the  software  being  provided 
with a specific license key for decryption once it has shown that 
it will adequately implement the requested DRM system. In most 
circumstances,  this  means  that  unauthorized  players  will  be 
unable to decrypt the media content and, therefore, unable to 
copy it. However, these media depend on the developers of this 
viewing software, which must handle all movies and not just a 
specific list of movies. Hence, there is little creative freedom in 
the aesthetic DRM responses for music and movies, as opposed 
to software and games.

This is not to say that piracy has no aesthetic consequences 
for illegally copied  film and music.  As  Virginia Crisp  drew to 
my attention, there are pirate covers created for these artifacts. 
There are also instances of professional studios adopting a “pi-
rate aesthetic” as part of their own marketing efforts, recuperat-
ing piracy in the service of official sales. For example, Sony sent 
out The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo (2012) “in its box as a blank 
home-burned  DVD  with  the  title  carelessly  hand-written  in  a 
black  permanent  marker.”81  This  gave  the  impression  that  the 
media was, itself, a pirated form and that people had received 
a “rip-off ” edition. Finally, enthusiasts can create remixes and 

81  Florence Waters, “Film Buyers Fooled by Sony’s ‘The Girl with the Dragon 
Tattoo’ DVD Joke,” The Telegraph, March 21, 2012, https://www.telegraph.
co.uk/culture/film/film-news/9158437/Film-buyers-fooled-by-Sonys-The-
Girl-with-the-Dragon-Tattoo-DVD-joke.html.

 241

warez

fan edits that come with their own aesthetic. These edits are fa-
cilitated by access to materials that have the DRM protections re-
moved. That is to say, piracy may facilitate such more legitimate 
creative endeavors.

This  is  to  make  a  more  limited  case  for  how  the  economic 
logic of piracy conditions aesthetic responses. It is certainly the 
more exciting argument to believe that underground networks 
of piracy could have positive feedback loops that change main-
stream  production.  This  is  true  in  some  cases,  notably  in  the 
space  of  self-executing  software.  Most  digital  artforms  do  not 
respond  aesthetically  to  piracy  in  quite  such  innovative  and 
creative ways. Whether for technical reasons or simply because 
they were unaware, most works do not contain witty ripostes to 
DRM circumvention. Thus, we should take care not to overstate 
the  case  of  these  outsider  examples,  no  matter  how  amusing 
they may be.

disrupting aesthetic forms

A key question for those interested in the Scene is, what moti-
vates Sceners to participate in this alternative reality game? As 
this book has argued all along, it varies hugely, and there is no 
single motivating factor. However, I would argue that prestige 
and status are key elements that Sceners seek, over and above 
pirate artifacts. From the observations of this chapter on Scene 
aesthetics, we might posit that kudos and “cool” are also vital.

This insight yields some interesting observations. If partici-
pants are active because there is a certain level of kudos and cool 
associated  with  being  “in  the  Scene,”  then  there  is  a  potential 
avenue  by  which  law  enforcement  can  disrupt  the  Scene  that 
has not previously been explored. If the Scene were to be made 
boring or uncool, interest would dry up. There are many ways 
that law enforcement might approach this, some of which have 
dubious ethical status. For instance, infiltrating the DemoScene 
or ASCII art communities is a possibility. However, this would 
involve  infiltrating  a  legitimate  internet  subculture  on  the  off 

242

aesthetics

chance a connection can be found to the Warez Scene that can 
be exploited.

The fact of the matter remains, though, that topsites are FTP 
sites. They are fundamentally dull and, in many ways, uncool. 
Giving them a veneer of sheen and aesthetic cool is what lures 
people to these sites, coupled with their secrecy, exclusivity, and 
powerful  hardware.  Making  the  Scene  boring  is  a  route  that 
seems to have gone relatively unexplored — perhaps because it 
is impossible — but could be a viable law enforcement tactic as 
subcultural theory seems to suggest.

Of course, the type of cool that applies to geek underground 
subcultures is hardly the same kind of cool that applies in so-
ciety more generally. The word “geek” is a pejorative term that 
originally referred to “a carnival performer, often billed as a wild 
man whose act usually includes biting the head off a live chicken 
or snake.”82 In contemporary technological usage, the counter-
point to the term “geek” is the more pejorative “nerd.” Certainly, 
these  terms  both  sit  within  a  sphere  of  a  sort  of  masculinity. 
Their conversion to prevalent slang is best framed on “the con-
tinuum  of  masculine  improprieties,”  even  though  Sceners  are 
and can be female, as I have noted elsewhere.83 While the ety-
mology of “nerd” is unknown, though the word first appeared 
in a Dr. Seuss book in 1950,84 the distinction between these two 
terms  is  famously  debated  in  Douglas  Coupland’s  Microserfs 
(1995),  where  there  is  an  extended  discussion  on  “[w]hat,  ex-
actly,  is  the  difference  between  a  nerd  and  a  geek?”  In  Coup-
land’s novel, the difference is subtle and instinctual. The reply is 
that “geek implies hireability, whereas nerd doesn’t necessarily 
mean your skills are 100 percent sellable. Geek implies wealth.”85 
While “geeks were usually losers in high school who didn’t have 

82  Mike Sugarbaker, “What Is a Geek?” Gazebo (The Journal of Geek Culture), 

1998, http://www.gibberish.com/gazebo/articles/geek3.html.

83  Lori Kendall, “Nerd Nation: Images of Nerds in US Popular Culture,” Inter-

national Journal of Cultural Studies 2, no. 2 (1999): 264.

84  Geisel Theodor Seuss, If I Ran the Zoo (New York: Random House for 

Young Readers, 1950), 47.

85  Douglas Coupland, Microserfs (London: Flamingo, 1995), 174. 

 243

warez

a life,” the novel goes on, “not having a life [then] became a sta-
tus symbol.”86 Although it is not just the accumulation of wealth 
that has led to this, through figures such as Sheldon Cooper in 
the TV series, The Big Bang Theory, the “transition from geek-
as-sideshow-freak  to  geek-as-intelligent-expert  has  moved  the 
term from one of insult to one of endearment.”87

This use of the term “wealth” is curious in Coupland’s descrip-
tion. It is true that, within the context of Coupland’s novel, geek 
knowledge went on to lead to highly paid Silicon Valley jobs. For 
Warez  Sceners,  wealth  is  access  to  pre-release  software  rather 
than directly material in terms of money. It is nonetheless from 
their investment  in geeky activities that this  access and wealth 
arises. The wealth of the Warez Scener is, in fact, though, more 
akin to fanatics’ or comic book completists’ spirit of collecting.

Consider,  for  example,  that  in  the  comic-book-collecting 
subculture, prestige and status are “based on the ability to ac-
quire  canonical  texts,  as  determined  by  either  plot  or  creator 
significance. By possessing these comics, the reader substanti-
ates his or her participation in fandom.”88 Knowledge of the plot, 
characters, narrative, and style of these artifacts does, of course, 
play a role. However, the actual significance for the geek collec-
tor lies in possession of the object, not in the actual use of the 
comic book. The same is true of Warez Sceners. The terabytes 
upon terabytes of material that sit on the hard drives of topsites 
must go mostly unused. There are more media on these servers 
than it would be possible to consume in a lifetime. End-use is 
not the goal. Instead, it is the accumulation that here plays the 
role, as though these objects, which are scarce by their difficulty 
to obtain, were themselves a currency. Sites with the largest ar-
chives, along with the best internet links and affiliates, are the 
most  highly  valued.  Individuals  who  can  hoard  the  most  will 

86  Ibid.
87  J.A. McArthur, “Digital Subculture: A Geek Meaning of Style,” Journal of 

Communication Inquiry 33, no. 1 (January 2009): 61.

88  Jeffrey A. Brown, “Comic Book Fandom and Cultural Capital,” The Journal 

of Popular Culture 30, no. 4 (Spring 1997): 26.

244

aesthetics

likewise  gain  respect  because  they  are  able  to  fill  requests  on 
sites. In short, there is a fanbase-like hoarding phenomenon at 
work in the game of the Scene that is akin to the collecting in-
stincts seen in other geek communities (e.g., comics, vinyl, and 
so on). Certainly, one of the motivations of Sceners is to collect 
these artifacts even if not to use them.

Within this collecting mentality, the destruction of historic, 
pirate archives, when this happens, for instance through law en-
forcement action, has a twofold function. First, it makes it hard-
er to acquire historical material. The fact that duplicate releases 
are not allowed means that if substantial portions of the Scene’s 
historic output become inaccessible, Sceners cannot obtain the 
material via another route. At the same time, this increases the 
value  of  access  to  the  back  catalog.  The  scarcity  of  back  cata-
log releases increases the prestige of access to them. The fewer 
people have access, the more elite it is to get hold of such mate-
rial  on  request.  In  other  words,  until  the  point  of  total  eradi-
cation,  shutdowns  of  historic,  Scene-archive  topsites  increase 
the stakes in the game of prestige played out inside the Warez 
Scene  through  an  economy  of  scarcity.  Indeed,  it  may  be  the 
case,  paradoxically,  that  shutting  down  archive  topsites  could 
motivate  Sceners  into  further  participation,  seeking  out  ever-
scarcer, ever-more elite forms of access. This, again, shows how 
the scarcity of the Scene has an economic character.

It is true that, for some categories of individuals, the use-val-
ue of the Scene’s outputs do play a role beyond the general col-
lector impulse that I have just documented. For example, fans of 
specific musical subgenres (e.g., drum ’n’ bass or death metal) 
or film styles (e.g., science fiction or horror) will find few richer 
sources  than  the  Scene  for  high-quality  rips  of  this  material; 
however,  it  is  questionable  whether  the  Scene  provides  better 
longstanding back-access to this material when compared with 
private torrent trackers, as I have already discussed. Indeed, it is 
often the case that material that is extremely hard to acquire in 
real life, such as rare vinyl records, will find themselves ripped 
within the Scene context. This means that there may be a lim-
ited subset of Scene users who participate to gain actual access 

 245

warez

to  media  content  that  they  would  not  otherwise  possess.  The 
extent to which these niche, subgenre fan bases exist within the 
Scene  is  not  widely  known,  but  it  is  a  topic  that  would  merit 
further investigation in future interview work.

This also supposes that there are two levels of collection and 
taste-determination  within  the  Warez  Scene.  In  conventional 
collecting  circles,  “a  collection’s  quality  is  overdetermined  by 
knowledge  and  taste  and,  therefore  is  subject  to  field-specific 
forms  of  valuation,”  as  Benjamin  Woo  puts  it.89  In  the  Warez 
Scene, at the “meta-collecting” level — where it does not matter 
what one is collecting, so long as it is a Scene release — the abil-
ity to “to claim status among […] fellow geeks” is determined 
by  access  to  scarce  warez  and  not  by  any  particular  principles 
of taste and style.90 By contrast, another level of collecting, such 
as artifact and genre-based collecting, carries with it the same 
principles of style and taste that one would see in external geek 
cultures. Moreover, this latter group may attract symbolic cur-
rency  (e.g,.  prestige,  respect)  in  groups  outside  the  Scene  be-
cause of their internal access. The punk-rock lover who manages 
to acquire access to works that others cannot, via the Scene, will 
garner exterior respect in a different community because of that 
access. Hence, geek collecting mentalities in the Scene have both 
interior  and  exterior  projects  of  cultural  capital  accumulation. 
The former are media agnostic, while the latter fit within exist-
ing descriptive paradigms of taste and subcultural behavior.

Another  definition  of  geek  focuses  more  keenly  on  the 
obsessive  nature  of  interest.  For  instance,  McCain  et  al.  prof-
fer the distinction that “[n]erds were considered to be socially 
awkward and overly intellectual, whereas geeks were prone to 
obsessive  interest  in  marginalized  or  obscure  hobbies  such  as 
the  Dungeons  and  Dragons  game,  comic  books,  and  personal 
computing.”91 This description seems accurate, except that one 

89  Benjamin Woo, “Alpha Nerds: Cultural Intermediaries in a Subcultural 

Scene,” European Journal of Cultural Studies 15, no. 5 (2012): 662.

90  Ibid.
91  Jessica McCain, Brittany Gentile, and W. Keith Campbell, “A Psychological 
Exploration of Engagement in Geek Culture,” PLOS ONE 10, no. 11 (2015): 2.

246

aesthetics

of these media is not like the others. While Dungeons and Drag-
ons  and  comic  books  are  single-subject  activities,  being  into 
“personal computing” is a very different interest as the comput-
er itself can present many different scenarios. For instance, be-
ing interested in “personal computing,” at least now, could mean 
that a user enjoys making music, creating visual artworks, play-
ing games, programming, building computers, chatting online, 
or  participating  in  the  Warez  Scene.  Of  course,  this  technical 
distinction  hardly  matters  given  the  bullying  concepts  within 
which the term was developed and used. Notably, an interest in 
computers could be lumped in these same categories.

Nonetheless,  the  geeks  of  the  Scene  find  that  their  social 
identities  are  greatly  sculpted  by  operating  within  this  milieu. 
As  J.P.  Williams  posits,  “[f]or  individuals  who  do  not  partici-
pate in face-to-face scenes, however, the internet is more than a 
medium; it is a social space through which personal and social 
identities are constructed, given meaning, and shared through 
the ritual of computer-mediated interaction.”92 This means that, 
for many Warez Sceners, their primary life identity is sculpted 
by a partially asynchronous online subculture.

The asynchronicity of the Scene is both a defining feature and 
an element that the Scene tries to eliminate. While the Scene is 
an international network that spans the globe, it is also split into 
geographical regions, mitigating the effects of timescales. For in-
stance, as noted, there are separate courier charts for EU, US, and 
Asian regions, implying that racing between these regions is less 
common and comes with speed challenges of internet routing 
(it is usually much slower to transfer a file from an Asian region 
to an EU region than it would be to transfer a file within those 
borders). In addition, this division into time zones means that 
individuals will mostly be online at the same time within their 
geographic bubbles and so will have space for social interaction.
The  actual  time  spent  online  by  Sceners  varies  hugely.  A 
Wired  article  that  interviewed  a  Scene  member  noted  that 

92  Williams, “Authentic Identities,” 195.

 247

warez

“Clickety used to spend 12 hours a day online.”93 Topsite rules 
for  couriers  specify  that  a  certain  quota  must  be  met  every 
month, as noted above in the section on geek humor. In turn, 
this ensures that users must spend a certain proportion of time 
online to meet this demand and keep their slot on the site. As a 
side effect, these quotas force users to be online at similar times, 
thus  ensuring  more  of  a  synchronous  community  experience. 
Of course, there are still periods of users being “AFK,” or away 
from keyboard. However, many site rules are designed to mini-
mize this and ensure that end-users congregate for the synchro-
nicity of social encounters. Internet Relay Chat (IRC) bouncers 
are another element that provides for a synchronous encounter, 
even within an asynchronous environment. By leaving an ava-
tar present at all times on IRC, users avoid the need to reinvite 
themselves  into  many  different  site  channels  with  passwords 
and on-site invite commands and give the appearance of pres-
ence at all times, affirming synchronicity once more.

While  many  forms  of  geek  culture  eventually  worked  to 
reclaim  the  label  and  to  self-appropriate  the  term,  the  Warez 
Scene faces additional challenges that licit subcultures do not. 
Mainstream geek culture has tended to focus, for example, on 
“science-fiction  and  fantasy,  comic  books,  roleplaying  games, 
costuming, etc.” and “[t]hese interests tended to share common 
themes,  such  as  larger-than-life  fantasy  worlds  (e.g.,  Tolkein’s 
Middle  Earth),  characters  with  extraordinary  abilities  (e.g., 
Superman), the use of magic or highly advanced technologies 
(e.g.,  futuristic  technologies  in  Star  Trek),  and  elements  from 
history (e.g., renaissance fairs) or foreign cultures (e.g., Japanese 
cartoons, or anime).”94 Importantly, the visible performance or 
demonstration  of  a  “knowledge  of  or  devotion  to  these  inter-
ests became a form of social currency between self-proclaimed 

93  David McCandless, “Warez Wars,” Wired, April 1, 1997, https://www.wired.

com/1997/04/ff-warez/.

94  McCain, Gentile, and Campbell, “A Psychological Exploration of Engage-

ment in Geek Culture,” 2. 

248

aesthetics

geeks” that culminated in the now enormously popular Comic-
Con events.95

Comic-Con, with its famed, outlandish cosplay, gives geeks 
“a gathering space where attendees can attend panels, buy mer-
chandise, and wear costumes to show their devotion to a partic-
ular show or comic book character.”96 It also clearly yields a way 
for once-employed science fiction actors to receive an ongoing 
revenue stream, as fans will queue for hours and pay handsomely 
to have their photograph taken with their heroes. Furthermore, 
recent studies have shown that mainstream geek culture is “a lu-
crative target for advertisers as well as being high-spenders with 
the power to make or break billion-pound brands.”97 Using the 
UK’s currency, the British Pound, this work showed that geeks 
“number  a  seven  million  strong  audience  for  ad  agencies  and 
estimates that the ‘geek pound’ is worth a staggering £8.2b [USD 
10.58b] a year.” Finally, this survey, conducted by Sci-Fi channel 
service reveals that geeks are not anti-social loners. Instead, it 
“shows that geeks these days have discovered a social life — with 
52% more likely than the average person to have had four holi-
days  in  the  last  12  months  and  125%  more  likely  to  visit  pubs, 
clubs,  and  bars.  And  nearly  40%  of  them  believe  their  special 
interests make them attractive to the opposite sex.”98

This mainstream geek culture, and Comic-Con in particular, 
provides an apt counterpoint for the Warez Scene. While Com-
ic-Con yields a public outlet venue in which geeks can perform 
with  pride,  the  illegality  of  the  Warez  Scene  forces  members 
into secrecy to avoid detection. This is not to say that there is 
not pride among Warez Sceners. Clearly, leaking information to 
public documentary websites, such as TorrentFreak, is a key way 
in  which  Sceners  can  show  off  their  creds  and  insider  knowl-
edge  without  a  great  deal  of  risk.  This  breaking  of  interiority 

95  Ibid.
96  Ibid., 2.
97  Timothy Lithgow, “Sci-Fi Unveils the ‘Geek Pound’,” MediaWeek, June 
27, 2005, https://www.campaignlive.co.uk/article/sci-fi-unveils-geek-
pound/510998. 

98  Ibid.

 249

warez

is frowned upon by members of the Scene, while clearly there 
is a lure to do so in order to bask briefly in the reflected glory 
of  providing  the  inside  story  to  someone  without  access. This 
comes with some risk to the Scene member in question as they 
will have to reveal some elements of their identity to a journal-
ist  or  blogger — who  could,  indeed,  be  a  member  of  law  en-
forcement — although it is relatively trivial to send anonymous 
emails with tips.

It  is  also,  clearly,  the  case  that  the  Warez  Scene  cannot  be 
monetized in the same way as other geek scenes. While Comic-
Con and other events provide commercial loci, points at which 
social interaction melds with trade, the Warez Scene does not 
work  in  this  way.  For  one,  face-to-face  meetings  would  entail 
far  too  much  physical  risk  for  participants,  and  only  long-es-
tablished, quasi-legitimate DemoScene groups such as Fairlight 
can even risk this (see the section on Fairlight in Chapter Six). 
While there is research that suggests that other geek subcultures 
may meet in the real world and that approaches to their study 
must  examine  the  overlap  between  online  and  offline  experi-
ence, this seems less likely in the context of the Warez Scene.99 
For a second point, it is unclear what conceivable merchandise 
could be provided around this type of activity. Other forms of 
“geek scene” have their own media, which results in substantial 
product  placement.  For  instance,  George  Lucas  made  an  ex-
tremely  savvy  move  in  retaining  the  merchandising  rights  for 
the Star Wars franchise. It is hard to imagine what commodities 
might circle the topsite Scene. Models of one’s favorite server? 
USB  keys  with  classic  releases  and  demos  on  them?  A  “build 
your own topsite” stall or a top trumps game? Competitive, live, 
courier racing? In short, the illegality and the inherently non-
commercial nature of the Warez Scene render it a different space 
for the types of in-person, highly commodified circulation that 
one sees among other geek scenes.

99  Thomas J. Holt, “Subcultural Evolution? Examining the Influence of On- 
and Off-Line Experiences on Deviant Subcultures,” Deviant Behavior 28, 
no. 2 (2007): 172.

250

aesthetics

There  are  indeed  other  improbable  types  of  geek  culture 
meet-ups.  Consider  the  rise  of  large-scale  gaming  parties,  in 
which  competitors  bring  their  computers  to  a  shared  locale 
to game against one another. The biggest of these can number 
thousands of participants. One could also point again to the De-
moScene, where digital artists come together in person to show 
off their creations, to socialize, and so forth. There are also CTF 
Hacking meetings. These are “Capture the Flag” games for com-
puter crackers that involve breaking in, as a team, to a remote 
server. These  hacker  events  provide  a  safe  space  for  computer 
security experts to demonstrate their acumen, within a legal en-
vironment, under fun, competitive conditions.

This  is  all  to  say  that  while  Scene  cultures  may  appear  too 
esoteric to merit in-person social events, there are possible ways 
that individuals from these spaces would like to meet. The ille-
gality of the Scene is most likely the impinging factor that holds 
them back. To conclude, the Scene seems to function as do oth-
er aesthetic, geek subcultures. This comes with one significant 
conclusion.  I  have  argued  throughout  this  book  that  prestige 
and  reputation  are  the  currencies  that  power  the  game  of  the 
Warez  Scene.  Recent  psychological  studies  of  geek  subculture 
offer  some  confirmation  of  this:  “[o]ur  findings  suggest  that 
geek media is especially attractive to narcissists, independent of 
demographic variables.”100 It is the need to show off that comes 
through most strongly in the Warez Scene, and this is why it is 
so  prominently  linked  to  the  aesthetic  cultures  of  the  Demo-
Scene and the ASCII art scene. It is this pride that will often come 
before a fall. The need to perform one’s elite status in public is 
where many Sceners meet their end, accidentally showing off in 
front of law enforcement.

100 McCain, Gentile, and Campbell, “A Psychological Exploration of Engage-

ment in Geek Culture,” 33.

 251

Takedowns

One of the defi ning features of the Warez Scene is that the game 
is illegal, although many participants do not consider this most 
of the time. While the “motivations of warez traders may vary” 
and “pure profi t is not the sole or even dominant consideration 
for  many,”  there  is,  as  Gregory  Urbas  writes,  “a  widely-shared 
conception of warez groups, both by themselves and more gen-
erally  within  the  online  community,  as  not  really  engaged  in 
criminal exploits at all, but rather operating on the fringes of of-
fi cialdom or the corporate world by pirating expensive soft ware 
and  making  it  freely — or  at  least  inexpensively — available  to 
others.”1 Unfortunately, this belief is misplaced as the many law-
enforcement raids of pirate groups have shown.

In this chapter, I detail the major raids conducted against the 
Scene  since  the  millennium.  Specifi cally,  I  turn  to  Operation 
Cyber  Strike  and  associated  early  raids,  Operation  Buccaneer, 

1  Gregor Urbas, “Cross-National Investigation and Prosecution of Intellec-

tual Property Crimes: Th  e Example of ‘Operation Buccaneer’,” Crime, Law 
and Social Change 46, nos. 4–5 (December 2006): 209. See also Sameer 
Hinduja, “Neutralization Th  eory and Online Soft ware Piracy: An Empiri-
cal Analysis,” Ethics and Information Technology 9, no. 3 (2007): 187–204; 
Aron M. Levin, Mary Conway Dato-on, and Kenneth Rhee, “Money 
for Nothing and Hits for Free: Th  e Ethics of Downloading Music from 
Peer-to-Peer Web Sites,” Journal of Marketing Theory and Practice 12, no. 1 
(2004): 48–60.

 253

warez

Operation Fastlink, Operation Site Down, and the most recent 
bust,  the  SPARKS  raid  of  2020.  These  raids  seem  to  follow  a 
recurrent  pattern.  The  enforcement  action  triggers  a  tempo-
rary shutdown of much of the Scene, followed by a period of 
recuperation before it all starts up again. Thus far, every time 
there  has  been  a  raid,  the  Scene  has  recovered  and  recom-
menced operations almost precisely as before, albeit each time 
with more stringent security precautions. Often conducted by 
covert agents, the raids offer another point at which the Scene 
surfaces into mainstream culture.2 Indeed, while it is possible, 
as I have done, to piece together the Scene from leaks of its own 
documents on the web, there are relatively few points at which 
official accounts independently even verify the existence of this 
subculture. The closest we will get to an official, non-self-pub-
lished account of the workings of the Scene is when an official 
US Department of Justice press release is issued. The issue might 
state, as this one from 2004 has for instance, that “groups exist 
solely […] to be the first to place a newly pirated work onto the 
Internet — often before the work is legitimately available to the 
public” via “‘elite’ sites.”3 It is in this way that law-enforcement 
raids form an important documentary source and archival con-
text in which to read the Warez Scene.

operation cyber strike (1997), operation fastlane (2001), 
and operation buccaneer (2002)

Operation Buccaneer was the designation given by the US Cus-
toms Service to its raids of the Warez Scene, beginning in Oc-
tober 2000. Buccaneer is usually charted as the first raid against 
the  Scene,  but  it  was  actually  preceded  by  Operation  Cyber 
Strike six years earlier, which targeted the Bulletin Board Sys-

2 

3 

J.D. Lasica, Darknet: Hollywood’s War against the Digital Generation 
(Hoboken: Wiley, 2005), 47–48.
“Justice Department Announces International Piracy Sweep,” US Depart-
ment of Justice, April 22, 2004, https://www.justice.gov/archive/opa/
pr/2004/April/04_crm_263.htm.

254

takedowns

tems  (BBS)  precursors  to  File  transfer  Protocol  (FTP)  topsites 
and on which very little information is available.4 That said, a 
1997 interview with “The Punisher” claims that Operation Cy-
ber Strike hit some of Razor 1911’s “most prestigious boards” at 
the  time.5  A  similar  but  brief  interview  with  The  Crazy  Little 
Punk indicated that even at this early stage, it was impossible to 
avoid raids: “if the feds are going to watch us, they’ll get into our 
channel secretly and not let us know it. Invite only isn’t going to 
keep them out.”6

The  primary  target  of  the  much  more  ambitious  later  Op-
eration  Buccaneer  was  the  group  DrinkOrDie.  The  US  Cus-
toms Service referred to this group as “the oldest and most well 
known” piracy outfit, a claim of dubious merit that many people 
have called into question.7 Other groups hit by the raid included 
RiSC,  Razor  1911,  RiSCISO,  Request  To  Send  (RTS),  Shadow-
Realm  (SRM),  WomenLoveWarez  (WLW),  and  POPZ.8  A  full 
list of individuals implicated as a result of these raids is shown 
in Table 2.

4  “FBI Hunts Software Pirates,” CNET, January 28, 1997, https://www.cnet.

com/news/fbi-hunts-software-pirates/; “Operation Cyber Strike,” Bankers 
Online, March 1, 1997, https://www.bankersonline.com/articles/103656; 
Jonathan R. Basamanowicz, “Release Groups & Digital Copyright Piracy” 
(Master’s Thesis, Simon Fraser University, 2011), 16; “Cyber Strike: FBI 
Agents Confiscated Computers And…,” Chicago Tribune, https://www.
chicagotribune.com/news/ct-xpm-1997-01-29-9701300206-story.html.
5  Anemia, “Interview with The Punisher (interview with the punisher - ane-

mia1.png),” January 29, 1997, DeFacto2.

6  Saint Tok, “Interview with The Crazy Little Punk,” DeFacto2 (df2-02.txt), 

February 1997, DeFacto2.

7  Farhad Manjoo, “Were DrinkOrDie Raids Overkill?” Wired, December 13, 
2001, https://www.wired.com/2001/12/were-drinkordie-raids-overkill/.
8  Paul J. McNultey, “Warez Leader Sentenced to 46 Months,” US Department 
of Justice, May 17, 2002, https://www.justice.gov/archive/criminal/cyber-
crime/press-releases/2002/sankusSent.htm.

 255

warez

Name

David Ander-
son

Scene 
Handle

Charge

Alleged 
Activities

Groups

Alex Bell

Mr 2940

Conspiracy to 
defraud

Richard Berry Flood

Conspiracy

DrinkOrDie

DrinkOrDie

Hardware 
supplier

DrinkOrDie, 
POPZ

Anthony Bu-
chanan

spaceace

Andrew Clardy Doodad

Myron Cole

t3rminal

Criminal copy-
right infringe-
ment

Criminal copy-
right infringe-
ment
Aiding and abet-
ting

Criminal copy-
right infringe-
ment 

DrinkOrDie, 
POPZ

DrinkOrDie

James Cudney BeCre8tive

DrinkOrDie

Copyright act 
violations

Conspiracy to 
defraud

Conspiracy to 
defraud

Criminal copy-
right infringe-
ment 

Conspira-
cy 

Ian Dimmock

Steven Dowd Tim

Andrew Eard-
ley

Derek Eiser

Psychod

Barry Erickson Radsl

Hew Raymond 
Griffiths

Bandido

DrinkOrDie

DrinkOrDie

Supplier DrinkOrDie, 

RiSCISO, 
POPZ

DrinkOrDie, 
Razor1911

256

takedowns

Scene 
Handle

Charge

Alleged 
Activities

Groups

Chevelle

Conspiracy

Name

David A. 
Grimes

DrinkOrDie, 
RiSC, RTS

Sup-
plier and 
topsite 
adminis-
trator

DrinkOrDie

Robert Gross

targetprac-
tice

Criminal copy-
right infringe-
ment 

Nathan Hunt Azide

Conspiracy

Supplier CORPS, 

Armvid 
Karstad

ievil

Kent Kartadi-
nata

Tenkuken Conspiracy

Michael Kelly Erupt

Conspiracy

IRCD 
adminis-
trator

Drink-
OrDie 
mail 
server 
operator

IRC bot 
operator

DrinkOrDie

DrinkOrDie, 
Razor1911

DrinkOrDie

AMNESiA, 
CORE, 
DrinkOrDie, 
RiSC

Stacey Nawara Avec

Conspiracy

Courier DrinkOrDie, 

Mike Nguyen Hackrat

Conspiracy

Dennis Os-
dashko

Copyright act 
violations

Razor1911, 
RTS

Razor1911, 
RiSC

Site 
adminis-
trator of 
The Ratz 
Hole

 257

warez

Name

Scene 
Handle

Charge

Alleged 
Activities

Groups

Kirk Patrick

thesaint

DrinkOrDie

Site 
adminis-
trator of 
GodCom-
plex

Buj

Conspiracy

Cracker CORPS, 

Sabuj Pattan-
ayek

Shane Pitman

John Riffe

blue/
blueadept

Criminal copy-
right infringe-
ment 

David Russo Ange

John Jr. Sankus eriFlleH

Conspira-
cy 

Mark Shu-
maker

Christopher 
Tresco

Mark Vent

markalso

BigRar

Conspiracy

Conspiracy to 
defraud

DrinkOrDie, 
RTS

Razor1911

Conspir-
acy

Software 
tester

DrinkOrDie

Co-leader 
of Drink-
OrDie

DrinkOrDie, 
Harm

Topsite 
adminis-
trator

DrinkOrDie, 
RiSC

Table 2: Individuals arrested and charged in the raids of December 
2001.9

9  Paul Craig, Software Piracy Exposed (Rockland: Syngress, 2005), 196–97; 
Eric Goldman, “Warez Trading and Criminal Copyright Infringement,” 
SSRN Electronic Journal (2004), 28; Urbas, “Cross-National Investigation 
and Prosecution of Intellectual Property Crimes,” 212–14; “Pair Convicted 
of Internet Piracy,” BBC News, March 16, 2005, http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/
hi/technology/4336401.stm; Rosie Cowan, “Jail for Net Pirates Who Saw 
Themselves as Robin Hoods,” The Guardian, May 7, 2005, http://www.

258

 
takedowns

The Buccaneer raids provide a compelling account of how news 
spreads within Scene announcement files. For instance, the ini-
tial NFO that went around the MP3 scene at the time listed a far 
more extensive list, totaling thirty-two screen names, than the 
eventual set of those indicted:

BUSTED: HiTech666 (ex-PWZ/ex-FTS/ex-Razor 1911/
Myth/Deviance/RTS, Montreal, Canada), jozef (Rogue-
Warriorz, Canada), Elisa (EGO, RogueWarriorz), Bierkrug 
(RogueWarriorz), Lord Hacker (RogueWarriorz), Axxess 
(RogueWarriorz), Waldorf (RogueWarriorz), Demonfurby 
(RogueWarriorz), Dr Infothief (RogueWarriorz), doodad 
(pop), tenkuken (dod), eRUPT (author of ruptbot, dod, 
Miami), doc-x (dod council, Miami), heckler (TiL), zielin, 
sui (tfl/wlw), hackrat (wlw/razor/dod, California), shark 
(wlw/razor/dod; RatzHole siteop, Australia), thraxis (not 
busted; but raided — 700 cds and computer; risc, pgc, dod, 
Queensland, Australia), maverick (from skidrow, not from 
omega; dod council), sony, bandido (razor, dod council, risc 
council), eriflleh (dod council, Philadelphia), bigrar (chris-
topher tresco 23 y/o, dod council, risc, ex-MnM, ex-PSF 
(Proper Stuff), Boston), avec (former fts, rts, rise, former 
DOD council, razor), buj (cracker; dod council, former rts 
senior, razor, former corpgods leader, ex-PGC, Durham 
North Carolina), forcekill (dod, turku Finland), radsl (dod, 
popz founder, Oregon), chevelle (Dallas), billyjoe (Aus-
tin), ievil (dod, razor, an ircop, had retired already, Arnvid 
Karstad), superiso (inferno; got raided), ^stealth (Oregon), 
BaLLz (CSR)10

theguardian.com/technology/2005/may/07/crime.uknews; Sam Dibley, 
“Former Leader of Razor 1911, the Oldest Game Software Piracy Ring on 
the Internet, Sentenced,” US Department of Justice, June 6, 2003, https://
www.justice.gov/archive/criminal/cybercrime/press-releases/2003/pit-
manSent.htm.

10  “Operation Buccaneer (operation_buccaneer.txt),” 2000, mp3scene.info.

 259

warez

While some of these turned out to be correct — hackrat, eriflleh, 
ievil, Erupt, avec, etc. — there are many individuals here named 
who  do  not  appear  on  the  indictment  list.  Whether  this  was 
simply because there was insufficient evidence to charge them 
remains  unclear.  What  is  obvious  though  is  that  these  initial 
news reports within the Scene should be understood within the 
framework of rumor.

Rumor  is  both  a  type  of  message  with  an  uncertain  truth 
value and a dissemination process for that material.11 However, 
the internet has radically changed the nature of gossip and ru-
mor.12  At  least  one  key  feature  of  rumor  dissemination  in  the 
virtual space is the rapidity of its spread, compared to conven-
tional  networks,  and  the  apparent  network  effects  of  sourcing 
in which it appears that the rumor has merely circulated with-
out an authoritative source.13 Like their cousins in the legitimate 
world news space, Scene news announcements mutate rapidly 
as  new  facts  become  known  on  the  ground:  “RELOAD  THE 
PAGE,  CONSTANTLY  UPATED!  [sic],”  one  of  the  Buccaneer 
news updates reads.14

When we view Scene-wide announcements of busts, we also 
need to consider that initial reports are not only inaccurate but 
function  as  a  type  of  rumor  machine  that  can  make  or  break 
a Scener’s reputation as well. For instance, the Operation Buc-
caneer Scene notice says that “BadGirl was accused of narqing 
on a site in Germany. They got her purged from most sites and 
deleted  from  Checkpoint.  She  use  to  be  in  TR,  a  MP3  release 
group.”15 These news releases in the Scene can quickly become 

11  Martin Sökefeld, “Rumours and Politics on the Northern Frontier: The 
British, Pakhtun Wali and Yaghestan,” Modern Asian Studies 36, no. 2 
(2002): 300.

12  Gordon W. Allport and L.J. Postman, The Psychology of Rumor (New York: 
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1947); Ralph L. Rosnow and Gary A. Fine, 
Rumor and Gossip: The Social Psychology of Hearsay (Amsterdam: Elsevier, 
1976).

13  For instance, see Glen A. Perice, “Rumors and Politics in Haiti,” Anthropo-

logical Quarterly 70, no. 1 (January 1997): 8.

14  “SceneBusts10 (scenebusts10.htm),” 2000, paraZite.
15  “Operation Buccaneer (operation_buccaneer.txt).”

260

takedowns

powerful tools by which enemies are denounced. In these types 
of online spaces, “[o]ur reputation is an essential component to 
our freedom, for without the good opinion of our community, 
our freedom can become empty.”16 These types of doxxing NFOs 
that reveal information about an individual for public shaming 
are weapons for the erosion of reputation.17 Even the suggestion 
that people have been caught can lead to negative reputational 
inference in the Scene, with a cracker named MoRf remarking 
that “[o]nly peasants get caught.”18

This issue of reputation and rumor concerning busts is im-
portant  in  order  to  understand  the  Scene  as  a  community.  In 
Francis  Fukuyama’s  not  uncontentious  analysis,  “[t]rust  is  the 
expectation that arises within a community of regular, honest, 
and  cooperative  behavior,  based  on  commonly  shared  norms, 
on the part of other members of that community” and “[s]ocial 
capital  is  a  capability  that  arises  from  the  prevalence  of  trust 
in a society or in certain parts of it.”19 Given the importance to 
Sceners of social capital and feeling that other members of the 
Scene can be trusted not to cooperate with law enforcement op-
erations, being named in an NFO file as having been busted, or 
having cooperated, would have serious consequences of ostraci-
zation. For instance, it is claimed that Shark, apparently a siteop 
of “The Ratz Hole,” “was a police officer in Sydney, Australia.” 
This  would  presumably  cause  alarm.  However,  the  NFO  goes 
on, “[h]e wasn’t an informant though, but rather a target of the 
busts” — that is, he was a police officer who was also a Scener 
and not involved in the investigations. It is unclear what effect 
this  type  of  rumor  would  have  on  the  individual’s  reputation, 
but  it  would  undoubtedly  lead  to  disquiet.  At  the  same  time, 
Sceners do not believe notices with an uncritical acceptance. As 

16  Daniel J. Solove, The Future of Reputation: Gossip, Rumor, and Privacy on 

the Internet (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2007), 30.

17  Ibid.
18  Manjoo, “Were DrinkOrDie Raids Overkill?”
19  Francis Fukuyama, Trust: The Social Virtues and the Creation of Prosperity 

(New York: Free Press, 1995), 26.

 261

warez

the Buccaneer notice puts it: “ONLY write a message if you are 
200% sure that it’s true. we do NOT need any new rumours.”20

We can also trace the way that news spreads between differ-
ent outlets when there is a Scene bust. For instance, a different 
announcement source, #dodbusts on EFNET, claimed:

BUSTED:  heckler,  zielin,  wizy  (risciso,  til),  sui  (tfl/wlw), 
hackrat (wlw/razor/dod, California), shark (wlw/razor/dod; 
RatzHole siteop), thraxis (not busted; but raided — 700 cds 
and computer; risc, pgc, dod, Queensland, Australia), mav-
erick  (from  skidrow,  not  from  omega;  dod  council),  sony, 
bandido  (razor,  dod,  risc  council),  eriflleh  (dod  council, 
Philadelphia),  bigrar  (dod,  risc,  Boston),  avec  (former  fts, 
rts,  rise,  former  DOD  council,  razor),  buj  (dod,  Durham 
North Carolina), forcekill (dod, turku Finland), radsl (dod, 
Oregon), chevelle (Dallas), billyjoe (Austin), ievil (razor, an 
ircop,  had  retired  already),  superiso  (inferno;  got  raided), 
raftman (Norway)21

Although it is not possible to trace the direction in which this 
information flowed, the direct repetition of “thraxis (not bust-
ed; but raided — 700 cds and computer; risc, pgc, dod, Queens-
land, Australia)” is a clue that many of these news sources are 
copying and pasting from each other, recycling the same rumor, 
albeit with different names in this particular update (wizy, for 
instance,  who  appears  nowhere  else).  It  is  further  worth  not-
ing that there are reputational advantages in being the person in 
the news cycle who can be the first to reveal accurate informa-
tion. Given that most of the Scene works on a who-you-know 
basis, accurately identifying members of elite Scene groups can 
be  used  to  the  newscaster’s  advantage.  That  is,  being  the  per-
son who can correctly identify, say, that shark was busted and 
that  they  were  a  member  of  Razor1911  and  siteop  of The  Ratz 
Hole is, in itself, a form of bragging that one knows the internal 

20  “Operation Buccaneer (operation_buccaneer.txt).”
21  “SceneBusts10 (scenebusts10.htm).”

262

takedowns

Scene structure and is acquainted with high-status individuals. 
Indeed, such reporting carries a false modesty, or humblebrag, 
within it, akin to saying that one “bumped into Mick the other 
day,” when one means Mick Jagger. We can, therefore, discern 
a motive in these announcements for the naming of apparently 
high-ranking  Sceners  who  were  not  actually  busted;  naming 
such individuals and revealing their details confers status on the 
person who does the naming.

It is also clear that these busts attempt to target key network 
figures; group leaders and co-leaders who are the nodes through 
which much of the Scene operates. Such individuals can be un-
derstood through the triplicate functions that they occupy. They 
are career Sceners, they are gatekeepers, and they hold particular 
dispositions  towards the field and the mainstream.22 This is to 
say that, with limited resources available with which to conduct 
law-enforcement  operations,  the  involved  organizations  make 
targeted  choices  to  focus  on  supposed  central  individuals.  In 
a structure that appears to be networked, rhizomatic, and dis-
persed, the efficacy of this approach seems to be questionable. As 
can be seen through the history of Scene busts, every time that 
one head of the hydra is severed, another five appear to regrow: 
“RTSMP3 currently shutdown, but will return in the future.”23 

operation fastlink (2004)

After the relative success of Buccaneer, the FBI, the US Depart-
ment of Justice, the Computer Crimes and Intellectual Property 
Section (CCIPS) of the Criminal Division, and Interpol coordi-
nated to launch a fresh series of raids in 2004.24 The largest com-
ponent of Operation Fastlink was Operation Higher Education, 

22  Benjamin Woo, “Alpha Nerds: Cultural Intermediaries in a Subcultural 

Scene,” European Journal of Cultural Studies 15, no. 5 (2012): 666.

23  “Operation Buccaneer (operation_buccaneer.txt).”
24  Lucas Logan, “The IPR GPR: The Emergence of a Global Prohibition Re-

gime to Regulate Intellectual Property Infringement,” in Piracy: Leakages 
from Modernity, ed. Martin Fredriksson and James Arvanitakis (Sacra-
mento: Litwin Books, 2014), 144–45.

 263

warez

a series of synchronized raids on topsites based at universities 
“which resulted in more than 120 search warrants executed in 
the United States, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Hun-
gary, Israel, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, and the 
United  Kingdom;  the  confiscation  of  hundreds  of  computers 
and  illegal  online  distribution  hubs;  and  the  removal  of  more 
than $50 million worth of illegally copied software, games, mov-
ies  and  music  from  illicit  distribution  channels.”25  These  sites 
could benefit from the relatively high link speeds of university 
campuses,  although  such  sites  sometimes  had  seasonal  shut-
downs to avoid detection over the holiday periods. Operations 
Fastlink and Higher Education were designed to signal that run-
ning topsites on campuses was no longer a certain, safe activity. 
The  primary  target  of  Operation  Fastlink  was  the  prolific  and 
highly respected release and cracking group, Fairlight, with sub-
sidiary  raids  against  members  of  Kalisto,  Echelon,  Class,  and 
DEViANCE.

As  with  many  cracking  groups,  Fairlight  had  its  co-origins 
in the Commodore DemoScene, a computer art subculture that 
focuses on creating short video artworks within self-contained 
executables. The merging with the illegal warez subculture came 
when  cracks  of  commercial  software  began  integrating  the 
demo visualizations of the DemoScene, covered in the preced-
ing chapter. Nonetheless, Fairlight was a highly successful Scene 
group, and a brief digression into its history is merited. Founded 
in Malmö, Sweden, the group scaled new heights of speed for 
releases by using a train conductor as a courier to get the lat-
est games from founder and supplier Tony Krvaric (“strider”), 
who  worked  in  a  computer  shop,  to  the  cracker  Fredrik  Kahl 
(“gollum”).  This  localization  and  speed  of  transfer  meant  that 
they could outpace their rivals with ease, beating other groups 
to the release by a substantial margin.26 This focus on the speed 

25  US Attorney’s Office, “Florida Man Who Participated in Online Piracy 
Ring Is Sentenced,” FBI, May 6, 2009, https://www.fbi.gov/newhaven/
press-releases/2009/nh050609a.htm.

26  Daniel Goldberg, “‘We Might Be Old, But We’re Still the Elite’,” Computer 
Sweden, April 20, 2012, https://computersweden.idg.se/2.2683/1.444716/

264

takedowns

of  shipment  and  obtaining  supply  at  pace  can  also  be  seen  in 
internal group NFOs, such as Miracle, who created a list of US 
companies who would rapidly ship software and games and that 
could, therefore, be used as a supply route.27 At this time, trading 
cracked software was not a crime in Sweden.

The  demographic  qualities  of  the  individuals  involved  are 
also  telling  and,  in  at  least  one  case,  remarkable.  Krvaric  has 
since emigrated to the United States and is now the chairman 
of the San Diego Republican Party. There, his biography notes 
that while he was “[b]orn and raised in Sweden,” he claims to 
have been “inspired by Ronald Reagan’s optimism and unshak-
able  belief  in  free  enterprise,  individual  liberty  and  limited 
government.”28 The biography does not specify whether Richard 
Nixon similarly inspired Krvaric. While, of course, it is possible 
that Krvaric changed his politics over time, during the period it 
was alleged that he was involved in Fairlight, he apparently used 
the slogan “Kill a Commie for Your Mommie,” according to sev-
eral news sources, demonstrating a right-wing bent even in his 
teenage  years.29  Indeed,  an  early  Fairlight  demo  called  “Space 
Age” appears to show Krvac throwing a Nazi salute in front of 
an animated dancing Hitler according to news reporting.30 Kr-
vac’s desire “to leave Swedish social democracy,” as an article on 
him in RawStory alleges, challenges the assertion that the Warez 

we-might-be-old-but-were-still-the-elite.

27  Miracle, “USA retail shipment speeds (USA shops and speed.txt),” n.d., 

DeFacto2.

28  “Chairman Tony Krvaric,” The Republican Party of San Diego County, n.d., 

http://www.sandiegorepublicans.org/chairman-tony-krvaric.html.
29  Don Bauder, “Chairman of San Diego GOP Co-Founded International 
Piracy Ring, Says Online News Website | San Diego Reader,” San Diego 
Reader, April 29, 2008, https://www.sandiegoreader.com/weblogs/finan-
cial-crime-politics/2008/apr/29/chairman-of-san-diego-gop-co-founded-
international/.

30  Ryan Bradford, “Tony Krvaric Has Always Sucked,” AwkwardSD, Septem-
ber 3, 2020, https://awkwardsd.substack.com/p/tony-krvaric-has-always-
sucked; Amita Sharma and J.W. August, “Video Resurfaces Featuring 
Images of Hitler and Local GOP Party Chair Tony Krvaric,” KPBS, August 
21, 2020, https://www.kpbs.org/news/2020/aug/21/video-surfaces-images-
hitler-and-tony-krvaric/.

 265

warez

Scene should be viewed as a socialistic or communistic enter-
prise.31 Instead, the Scene is an environment of extreme speed 
and competition — an eminently capitalistic space — and one to 
which, it would seem, Krvac’s political temperament is well suit-
ed. On the other hand, “gollum” — Fredrik Kahl — is now a Pro-
fessor of Mathematics who has held positions at Lund Univer-
sity and Chalmers University in Sweden, reflecting the extreme 
level of skill and intelligence required in cracking software.

Although Fairlight started as a legal demoscene enterprise, it 
was definitively illegal by the time of its later PC ISO (i.e., games) 
Warez  Scene  operations.  This  led  to  Operation  Fastlink.  Like 
previous busts, initial rumors spread like wildfire through the 
Scene and contained some truth. For instance, an early report 
on the raids notes that “toxin” of Fairlight was busted.32 This tal-
lies  with  subsequent  FBI  press  releases  that  identified  toxin  as 
Greg Hurley, a supplier for the group. However, the initial Scene 
bust report did not note that “ripvan,” Nathan Carrera, was also 
successfully prosecuted and convicted of “serving as a site op-
erator for at least one FTP warez site.”33 Indeed, the initial Scene 
reports, in the case of Fastlink, were, for once, understated. Al-
though the notification states that one hundred people were tar-
geted, this seems accurate because in the US alone,  Operation 
Fastlink  resulted  in  over  sixty  felony  convictions  for  software 
piracy offenses.34

Some  Scene  members  had  thought  that  specific  subgenres 
of release were safer than others. For instance, existing sources 
state that prosecutors were more interested in pursuing main-
stream movie and game release groups than other content types. 

31  Miriam Raftery, “San Diego GOP Chairman Co-Founded International 

Piracy Ring,” The Raw Story, April 29, 2009.

32  “opfastlink.txt,” 2002, http://144.217.177.36:1421/EBooks/paraZite/op-

fastlink.txt.

33  US Attorney’s Office, “Florida Man Who Participated in Online Piracy 

Ring Is Sentenced.”

34  “60th Felony Conviction Obtained in Software Piracy Crackdown ‘Opera-
tion Fastlink’,” US Department of Justice, March 6, 2009, https://www.
justice.gov/opa/pr/60th-felony-conviction-obtained-software-piracy-
crackdown-operation-fastlink.

266

takedowns

As Paul Craig writes, “FBI activity focuses on game and movie 
piracy, not because the FBI considers this to be the largest threat, 
but because that’s where the money is.”35 He also notes the in-
terview  with  “DOM”  where  this  Scener  says,  “to  date,  no  one 
has  been  sentenced  for  ripping  adult  media,”  showing  a  belief 
that  the  XXX  genre  of  the  Scene  is  safe,  as  might  be  other  ar-
eas.36 (This is possibly because law enforcement does not wish 
to  be  seen  to  be  protecting  the  pornographic  industry.)  How-
ever,  a  retrospective  analysis  of  the  convictions  from  Fastlink 
tells a different story and one in which the MP3 division of the 
Scene  became  implicated.37  Consider,  for  instance,  that  Derek 
A. Borchardt, Matthew B. Howard, Aaron O. Jones, and George 
S. Hayes were convicted of being members of “pre-release mu-
sic groups,” Apocalypse Crew (APC) and Chromance (CHR).38 
While Fastlink primarily targeted Fairlight’s PC ISO activities, the 
consequences of the raids reached far into various media types.

operation site down (2005)

Unlike other raids that had worked to infiltrate release groups, 
Operation Site Down in 2005, along with its subset  investiga-
tion, Operation Copycat, worked by establishing two sting top-
sites, LAD and CHUD, that were run by an FBI agent, using the 
handle “Griffen.” Totaling 11 terabytes of data, these sites attract-
ed prominent affiliate groups, such as CENTROPY, and co-sit-
eops who were willing to help with scripting (the user “x000x,” 

35  Craig, Software Piracy Exposed, 200.
36  Ibid., 178.
37  MP3 piracy is organized into different levels. Studies to date have focused 

on the DCC file exchange level rather than the higher-level Scene on which 
this book works. See Jon Cooper and Daniel M. Harrison, “The Social 
Organization of Audio Piracy on the Internet,” Media, Culture & Society 
23, no. 1 (2001): 71–89.

38  “Justice Department Announces Four Pleas in Internet Music Piracy 

Crackdown,” US Department of Justice, February 28, 2006, https://www.
justice.gov/archive/opa/pr/2006/February/06_crm_103.html.

 267

warez

David Fish) and users who brokered relationships (“dact”) with 
release groups themselves.39

The studies of Operation Site Down and the affidavits of the 
FBI agent who operated the sting, Julia B. Jolie, are among the 
most informative legal documents about the Warez Scene. Of 
these documents, special commendation should go to Jonathan 
R. Basamanowicz’s Master’s thesis at Simon Fraser University, 
“Release Groups & Digital Copyright Piracy,” which is both ac-
curate and enlightening.40 For instance, in his analysis, taking 
the arrests and prosecutions as a random sampling mechanism, 
Basamanowicz  can  show,  of  those  convicted  in  this  raid,  the 
different demographic breakdowns for each type of individual. 
While  the  average  age  of  Sceners  was  27.4  years,  siteops  and 
group administrators trended above this age at around 29, while 
couriers and crackers tended to be much younger individuals. 
Testers and packagers are also substantially above the mean age 
range for Scene individuals at 40.5 years, but this is skewed by a 
limited sample of only two people and a standard deviation of 
9.2 years.41

The sentence lengths for individuals of different group types 
are  also  telling.  Release  group  administrators  received  the 
highest sentence lengths, at an average of 22 months, followed 
closely by suppliers at 18 months. Siteops, on average, received 
a sentence of 17.4 months, while testers of cracks received 15.5 
months. Curiously, crackers themselves seemed not to receive 
criminal sentences in this analysis. Of the types of individuals 
who  were  imprisoned,  couriers  received  the  lowest  sentence 
levels, at an average of 4.5 months.42

39  Richard Seeborg, “United States of America v. Chirayu Patel, Aka Nebula, 
Aka Nabwrk, Aka Aluben, Aka Notneb, Aka Aluben: Warrant for Arrest,” 
June 28, 2005, 4.

40  Jonathan Basamanowicz and Martin Bouchard, “Overcoming the Warez 
Paradox: Online Piracy Groups and Situational Crime Prevention,” Policy 
& Internet 3, no. 2 (January 31, 2011): 79–103.

41  Basamanowicz, “Release Groups & Digital Copyright Piracy,” 37.
42  Ibid., 37.

268

takedowns

The court documents and Basamanowicz’s analysis are also 
fascinating for the defenses advanced for various criminal be-
haviors. The first is that often defendants pointed out that the 
piracy element was incidental to their behavior, which was ad-
dictive and compulsive. For instance, one defense read, “[m]y 
involvement in the warez scene had become such a routine in 
my life that it completely went out of control […]. I enrolled in 
classes, but seldom did attend them, I stayed up until 5 or 6 in 
the morning day after day, constantly chatting online and seeing 
if there were new pirated works to spread around […]. It was 
the illusion of power and fame that got to me I believe.”43 That 
the activity was piracy was, in some ways, not even relevant to 
the  addictive  behavior.44  It  is  true  that  its  illegality  engenders 
the  difficulty  of  participating  in  the  Scene  and  that  there  is  a 
high  level  of  competition  and  danger;  for  many  the  behavior 
is akin to a high-stakes lifestyle. As I have noted throughout, 
crackers in particular are motivated by the difficulty of the chal-
lenge. As Bryan T. Black writes, “his participation in the warez 
scene was driven by the intellectual challenge presented by the 
codes and a sense of membership in a collection of like-minded 
computer-heads on the internet.”45 The alternative reality game 
of the Warez Scene — as a “crime behaviour system,” as Décary-
Hétu  et  al.  term  it — is  a  communal  and  social  intellectual 
adrenaline sport.46

In other cases, defenses used evidence that group members 
had  not  been  pulling  their  weight  to  downplay  their  signifi-
cance. For instance, although pertaining to Operation Fastlink, 
“Christopher  Eaves,  a  supplier  for  the  group  aPC,  was  threat-
ened  with  banishment  from  the  group  because  of  his  lack  of 

43  Ibid., 52.
44  For more on addiction and self-control, see Sameer Hinduja, Music Piracy 

and Crime Theory (New York: LFB Scholarly Pub., 2006), 43–78.
45  Basamanowicz, “Release Groups & Digital Copyright Piracy,” 57.
46  David Décary-Hétu, Carlo Morselli, and Stéphane Leman-Langlois, 

“Welcome to the Scene: A Study of Social Organization and Recognition 
among Warez Hackers,” Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency 49, 
no. 3 (2012): 359–82.

 269

warez

contribution,” a fact that he used at his trial to attempt to show 
his lack of influence/impact.47 In other cases, though, the pros-
ecution looked at the formal structure of the groups — such as 
the fact that they had quality assurance mechanisms in the role 
of a software tester — to show that there was a professional el-
ement  to  these  outfits’  work.48  Indeed,  as  Basamanowicz  puts 
it, “copyright infringement of this nature is inherently a crime 
of organized and purposive groups acting in concert.”49 Yet, as 
Basamanowicz continues, “despite this aptitude, no research has 
been  conducted  on  the  network  structure  of  these  illicit  net-
works, and it is unknown if the courts considered such issues 
when assigning sentence.”50

Basamanowicz’s  analysis  is  also  interesting  because  he  asks 
whether the idea of network centrality correlates to longer pris-
on  sentences. That  is,  in  his  analysis  of  Operation  Site  Down, 
Basamanowicz  sought  to  work  out  whether  it  was  in  fact  the 
best  connected  individuals  in  the  raids  who  ended  up  with 
the harshest sentences. It turns out, though, that this not how 
things  work.  As  Basamanowicz  notes,  “there  are  actors  in  the 
network  who  are  highly  central,  and  significant  to  the  con-
nectivity of the network, but were over-looked by the courts in 
terms of sentencing.”51 This makes sense when we adopt a role-
based understanding of how the Scene works, and it highlights 
the weaknesses of the network approach. It is clear that couriers 
have  a  high  level  of  network  centrality,  connected  as  they  are 
to multiple sites and groups. However, while central in the net-
work, their activities are not central to the activities of procur-
ing the pirate release. They are also individuals who can easily 
be replaced, whereas crackers and suppliers are scarcer. Hence, 
while a network centrality analysis can clarify where individu-
als sit within the network and its activities, connectivity to one 

47  Basamanowicz and Bouchard, “Overcoming the Warez Paradox,” 10.
48  Ibid., 65.
49  Ibid.
50  Ibid.
51  Ibid., 73.

270

takedowns

another within the Scene is not a benchmark of the relative im-
portance — or the severity of the crime — of individuals.52

prq raids (2010)

While most Scene raids and busts are high-profile events, un-
dertaken by the FBI and other well funded, anti-crime initiatives 
in  the  US  with  grandiose  names  (e.g.,  “Operation  Buccaneer,” 
“Operation Fastlink”), several smaller busts have attracted less 
attention.  These  smaller  raids,  like  their  larger  cousins,  rarely 
result in long-term disruption. On the other hand, the low-level 
continuous threat of smaller-scale raids seeks to create a con-
stant reminder of the danger of legal sanction. It is not clear to 
what degree this succeeds, given that individuals carry on their 
activities  nonetheless.  It  is  also  the  case,  it  seems,  that  not  all 
raids go to plan.

In any case, an excellent example of the small-scale, ongoing-
raid philosophy, but one that had an unclear outcome, can be 
seen  in  the  European  raids  in  2010.  By  all  accounts,  this  was 
meant to be a large raid. Police in fourteen countries swooped in 
on topsites and attempted to take them offline. Sites in Sweden 
(BAR, SC), The Netherlands, the Czech Republic (LOST), and 
Hungary went offline. As the piracy news website, TorrentFreak, 
noted,  “[w]hile  there  were  reports  of  individuals  having  been 
taken in for questioning yesterday, for an operation of this size 
those numbers seem unusually low.”53 It is also the case that Tor-
rentFreak  believes  that  “certain  sites  probably  survived  due  to 
the techniques they employed to thwart this kind of an attack.”54 
The official press release from the Swedish police noted that the 
“investigation has focused on both those who provide the net-
work with films before they are released on the market, as well 
as on the servers on which a large number of films are uploaded 

52  Ibid.
53  Andy Maxwell, “Inside Yesterday’s European Warez Piracy Raids,” Tor-

rentFreak, September 8, 2010, https://torrentfreak.com/inside-yesterdays-
european-warez-piracy-raids-100908/.

54  Ibid.

 271

warez

(so-called Top-sites), and its administrators. The effort in Swe-
den has mainly been directed at suspected ‘top sites.’”55

It is possible to speculate which of these sites’ security meas-
ures worked. The most likely is the system of bouncers. Perhaps 
the authorities raided a location believing it to be the site, but it 
was only in fact the bouncer. This would mean that, upon raid-
ing the premises, they would find only a server that forwarded 
on  connections  and  no  pirated  material  itself.  While  previous 
convictions show that operating a bouncer is sufficient activity 
to merit jail time at least in the US, this is like finding the sign-
post to a secret cave rather than the cave. Of course, if a bouncer 
is seized, a site will likely go offline.

There  are  also  some  hypothetical  defenses  against  topsite 
raids, although it is unclear if these are viable or have ever ac-
tually been implemented in practice. For example, in Neal Ste-
phenson’s novel Cryptonomicon (1999), the server “Tombstone” 
is protected inside a room with an electromagnetic coil wound 
around the doorframe. This means that any hard drive that “was 
actually carried through that doorway would be wiped clean.”56 
This is a nice idea in theory. However, as a humorous, online, fan 
exchange shows, there are many flaws with its implementation 
in reality, not least of these was that any magnetic field powerful 
enough to degauss a hard drive would also be sufficiently power-
ful as to cause potential injury to anyone carrying a ferromag-
netic object anywhere near the field.57 That is, anyone entering 
the room would likely notice the magnetic field before they got 
anywhere near dismantling the server inside. Instead, the meas-
ures that yielded protection here are likely more prosaic.

55  Translated from the Swedish at Frederick Ingblad, “Tillslag Mot Fildeln-

ingsnätverk,” Åklagarmyndigheten, September 8, 2010, https://web.archive.
org/web/20100908084809/https://www.aklagare.se/Media/Nyheter/
Tillslag-mot-fildelningsnatverk1/.

56  Neal Stephenson, Cryptonomicon (New York: Random House, 2012), 722.
57  SQB, “Could a Hard Drive Actually Have Been Erased as Described in 
‘Cryptonomicon’?” Physics Stack Exchange, May 1, 2014, https://physics.
stackexchange.com/questions/110870/could-a-hard-drive-actually-have-
been-erased-as-described-in-cryptonomicon.

272

takedowns

It is also notable that these raids were targeted at the Internet 
Service Provider (ISP) level, with five officers visiting the hosting 
service, PRQ.58 This host is known as a provider for controversial 
websites. It has previously provided hosting for The Pirate Bay, 
WikiLeaks,  and  even  pedophilia  “advocacy”  groups.  As  such, 
the site has become known as a safe harbor for many types of 
controversial activities. It has also learned to defend them. For 
instance, as of 2008, the internet technology news site, The Reg-
ister, declared that PRQ “has amassed considerable expertise in 
withstanding legal attacks from powerful corporate interests.”59 
However, raids against PRQ resulted in the disclosure of email 
communications: “[t]hey were interested in who were using two 
IP  addresses  from  2009  and  onwards.  We  have  no  records  of 
our clients but we’re handing over the e-mail addresses for those 
behind the IPs. However, it’s rare that our clients have mail ad-
dresses that are traceable.”60

The  interesting  twist  in  the  raids  against  PRQ  is  that  under 
usual circumstances, the raids would target the sites themselves. 
These are often hosted at universities, so any raid at the ISP level 
would be asking for a university’s cooperation. In this case, the 
raid deliberately attempted to intercept Scene operations at an 
intermediary level. This can be tricky from a legal perspective 
as such providers are usually immune from prosecution for the 
content they host if they did not, themselves, produce it. This is 
what is called the “safe harbor” provision of the US’s Digital Mil-
lennium Copyright Act (DMCA).

To understand the challenges of prosecuting at the ISP level, 
it  is  worth  turning  to  the  example  of  the  intermediary  level, 

58  Quoted in Andy Maxwell, “Police in File-Sharing Raids across Europe, 
WikiLeaks Host Targeted,” TorrentFreak, September 7, 2010, https://tor-
rentfreak.com/police-in-file-sharing-raids-across-europe-wikileaks-host-
targeted-100907/.

59  Dan Goodin, “Wikileaks Judge Gets Pirate Bay Treatment,” The Register, 

February 21, 2008, https://www.theregister.com/2008/02/21/wikileaks_bul-
letproof_hosting/.

60  Maxwell, “Police in File-Sharing Raids across Europe.”

 273

warez

Cloudflare, particularly in the legal context of the US.61 In recent 
days, Cloudflare has come under fire for providing services to 
entities with illegal, or even just hateful, purposes. That Cloud-
flare did not make editorial decisions pertaining to its chosen 
customers was at one point vital to its definitional status under 
US law concerning free speech.62 At least two cases in New York 
state have declared that a publisher is defined by the editorial 
selection of the material that it elects to publish.63 By refusing to 
select, Cloudflare works around this. In turn, this has effects for 
DMCA and the legal status of organizations that publish content 
instead of those that disseminate it. This situation was remedied 
in part by the 1996 Communications Decency Act (CDA), which 
protected “any action voluntarily taken in good faith to restrict 
access to or availability of material that the provider or user con-
siders to be obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, excessively violent, 
harassing, or otherwise objectionable, whether or not such ma-
terial is constitutionally protected.”64 In this act, “[n]o provider 
or user of an interactive computer service shall be treated as the 
publisher or speaker of any information provided by another in-
formation content provider.”65 In other words, digital providers 
are free to screen the material they host according to their own 
internal standards, rather than simply those items that are con-
stitutionally  protected,  and  will  not  be  treated  as  though  they 
were a publisher, speaker, or endorser of that material.

61  This section is derived from my work in Martin Paul Eve, “Lessons from 
the Library: Extreme Minimalist Scaling at Pirate Ebook Platforms,” Digi-
tal Humanities Quarterly (2022), forthcoming.

62  Jack M. Balkin, “Free Speech Is a Triangle,” Columbia Law Review 118, no. 

7 (2018): 2011–56.

63  Leisure, Cubby, Inc. v. CompuServe, Inc., No. 776 F Supp 135 (United 
States District Court, S.D. New York October 29, 1991); Stuart L. Ain, 
Stratton Oakmont, Inc. v. Prodigy Services Co., No. 23 Media L Rep 1794 
(Supreme Court, Nassau County, New York May 24, 1995).

64  “47 U.S. Code § 230 — Protection for Private Blocking and Screening of 

Offensive Material,” LII / Legal Information Institute, 1996, https://www.law.
cornell.edu/uscode/text/47/230.

65  Ibid.

274

takedowns

Until  relatively  recently,  however,  Cloudflare  had  operated 
in  parallel  with  this  US  law  and  offered  no  additional  level  of 
screening of material. This changed when it decided to terminate 
service to The Daily Stormer, a far-right platform, and 8chan, a 
noticeboard known for its lawless nature. Cloudflare introduced 
its own moderation system.66 At this point, the protection of the 
earlier cases became invalid, but the provider was protected un-
der  CDA.  What  is  clear  is  that  there  is  no  distinction  between 
free speech and action when the act of publishing words is, in it-
self, the final act of illicit infringement. The Cloudflare example 
highlights some of the problems for law enforcement in tackling 
the  Scene  by  intervening  at  the  ISP  level.  While  they  may,  in-
deed, garner information about topsite operations by raiding ISP 
headquarters and demanding that information be turned over, 
sites are likely to cease operation once this becomes known or to 
move their location. In other words, gathering information via 
uncooperative ISPs is likely not an effective strategy.

The mixed fortunes of this operation may be why these raids 
did  not  go  on  to  yield  high-profile  legal  proceedings.  It  is,  in 
fact, difficult even to find press reports on the original raids.67 
While some Nordic sources report that charges were brought, it 
is nearly impossible to locate the court cases that were brought 
as a result of these raids.68 It does not help that, at the same time 
as these raids, the famous torrent-sharing site, The Pirate Bay, 
also coincidentally went offline, giving the impression that this 

66  Bharath Ganesh, “The Ungovernability of Digital Hate Culture,” Journal 
of International Affairs 71, no. 2 (2018): 38; Alex Rosenblat, Uberland: 
How Algorithms Are Rewriting the Rules of Work (Berkeley: University of 
California Press, 2018), 167; Viveca S. Greene, “‘Deplorable’ Satire: Alt-
Right Memes, White Genocide Tweets, and Redpilling Normies,” Studies 
in American Humor 5, no. 1 (2019): 31–69; David Mytton, “Cloudflare, Free 
Speech and the Rule of Law,” David Mytton, August 15, 2019, https://david-
mytton.blog/cloudflare-free-speech-and-the-rule-of-law/.

67  “Swedish Police Raid File Sharing ‘Scene’,” The Local, September 7, 2010, 

https://www.thelocal.se/20100907/28826.

68  Lars Akerhaug and Nicolai Heyerdahl, “Nordmann Siktet for Fildeling 

Etter Internasjonal Storaksjon,” Aftenposten, September 7, 2010.

 275

warez

bust was targeted at a different segment of the piracy pyramid.69 
What was clear is that there was not a fifteen-year “gap” between 
Operation  Site  Down  and  the  SPARKS  raids.  Instead,  law  en-
forcement was operative, albeit at a slower pace and lower level 
than the higher profile international busts. 

the sparks raid (2020)

Things nonetheless did go somewhat quiet in terms of signifi-
cant scene busts for nearly fifteen years. Then, in August 2020, 
amid  the  global,  coronavirus  pandemic,  the  Warez  Scene  was 
thrown into disarray by the unsealing of US indictments against 
core members of the release group SPARKS and “several linked 
affiliate  groups  including  GECKOS,  DRONES,  ROVERS  and 
SPRINTER.”  In  particular,  the  documents  revealed  that  in 
January 2020 an indictment and Grand Jury charges were filed 
against a 50-year-old British national living on the Isle of Wight. 
Alongside this was a 39-year-old Norwegian, whom it is alleged 
went by the handle “Artist” and who remains at large as of Sep-
tember 2020. Finally, for the initial indictments, a 36-year-old 
American (known, ironically, by the handle “Raid”) was arrest-
ed in Kansas and pled not guilty to the charges.70

The Grand Jury indictment filed by or on behalf of the Unit-
ed States Attorney General, Geoffrey S. Berman, alleges a copy-
right  infringement  conspiracy  in  which  “[f]rom  at  least  in  or 
around 2011, up to and including in or around January 2020 […] 
the defendant, and others known and unknown, were members 

69  Marc Chacksfield, “Police Arrest European File Sharers in Co-Ordinated 
Raids,” TechRadar, September 7, 2010, https://www.techradar.com/news/
internet/police-arrest-european-file-sharers-in-co-ordinated-raids-715004.

70  Andy Maxwell, “US Indictments and Raids of Piracy Group Members 

in ‘The Scene’ Throw Top-Tier Piracy World Into Chaos,” TorrentFreak, 
August 26, 2020, https://torrentfreak.com/us-indictments-and-raids-of-
piracy-group-members-in-the-scene-throw-top-tier-piracy-world-into-
chaos-200826/; Andy Maxwell, “Alleged SPARKS Member ‘Raid’ Pleads 
Not Guilty to Piracy Charges,” TorrentFreak, September 8, 2020, https://
torrentfreak.com/alleged-sparks-member-raid-pleads-not-guilty-to-pira-
cy-charges-200908/.

276

takedowns

of a criminal conspiracy known as the ‘Sparks Group’.”71 While 
the  indictment  is  light  on  actual  details,  it  mentions  the  top-
site Scene, alleging that the defendant worked to “compromise 
the  copyright  protections  on  the  discs,  reproduce  and  upload 
the  copyrighted  content  to  servers  controlled  by  the  Sparks 
Group.”72  The  indictments  against  all  defendants  were  nearly 
identical to one another.73

The impact of the SPARKS raid went well beyond these three 
individuals. The piracy news website, TorrentFreak, noted that 
the “USDOJ revealed that an operation was underway on three 
continents,  with  law  enforcement  partners  in  eighteen  coun-
tries carrying out raids and seizures, declaring that around sixty 
servers had been taken down.”74 This included work in the Nor-
dic countries but also in the Netherlands.75 An internal “Scene 
notice” NFO was also spread around topsites and detailed what 
had  happened.  The  figures  here — which,  as  always,  must  be 
taken with a pinch of salt, as there is no such thing as an “of-
ficial” Scene announcement — claim that twenty-nine sites were 
busted within fourteen countries. The claim in the Scene NFO 
was that the Linknet IRC network was compromised by a user 

71  Geoffrey S. Berman, “United States of America v. George Bridi,” August 1, 

2020.
72  Ibid.
73  Geoffrey S. Berman, “United States of America v. Umar Ahmad a/k/a 

‘Artist’,” August 1, 2020; Geoffrey S. Berman, “United States of America v. 
Jonatan Correa a/k/a ‘Raid’,” August 1, 2020; James Margolin and Nicholas 
Biase, “Acting US Attorney Announces Federal Charges And International 
Operation To Dismantle Online Piracy Group,” US Department of Justice, 
August 26, 2020, https://www.justice.gov/usao-sdny/pr/acting-us-attor-
ney-announces-federal-charges-and-international-operation-dismantle-0.

74  Andy Maxwell, “New ‘Scene’ Security Notice: ‘SPARKS’ Piracy Raids 

Busted Dozens of Sites,” TorrentFreak, September 1, 2020, https://torrent-
freak.com/new-scene-security-notice-sparks-piracy-raids-busted-dozens-
of-sites-200901/.

75  Andy Maxwell, “SPARKS Piracy Busts: Facts, Rumors & Fear Point to 

Something Huge,” TorrentFreak, August 27, 2020, https://torrentfreak.com/
sparks-piracy-busts-facts-rumors-fear-point-to-something-huge-200827/.

 277

warez

in France, allowing federal agents to eavesdrop on communica-
tions that were not secured by additional blowfish encryption.76
The Scene-wide announcement NFO also indicated that these 
raids are not likely to deter longtime pirates. Rather than calling 
for any disbandment, the document instead provides a set of se-
curity tips for locking down sites and IRC networks. As the NFO 
puts it: “we will [be] back and we will thrive again!”77 However, 
the  SPARKS  raid  triggered  a  historic  decline  of  Scene  release 
outputs in the short term. As charted by TorrentFreak using the 
predb.org public pre database, on “Wednesday, August 19, there 
were 1,944 new releases” and just one week later, “a day after the 
first raids, this number was down to 168 releases.”78

the efficacy of raids and legal enforcement

Perhaps  the  fundamental  question  that  comes  out  of  the  en-
forcement actions that I have detailed in this chapter is, do raids 
and  other  legal  means  of  disrupting  Scene  activities  have  any 
long-lasting,  or  even  short-term,  effects?  Are  raids  and  legal 
enforcement  efficacious?  This  is  the  question  to  which  David 
Décary-Hétu  turns  in  his  article  in  Policy  &  Internet,  “Police 
Operations 3.0: On the Impact and Policy Implications of Police 
Operations on the Warez Scene.”

Décary-Hétu rightly notes that the high-level Warez Scene is 
an attractive target for law enforcement as it is “a very (if not the 
most) important source of intellectual property illegally distrib-
uted online.”79 The Scene is an organized crime system that even, 
ironically,  has  its  own  internal  rules  against  plagiarism  and  a 

76  “Scene Busts and Mitigations (Scene_busts_And_Mitigations.png),” 2020, 

DeFacto2.

77  Ibid.
78  Ernesto Van der Sar, “Scene Bust Triggered Historic Drop in ‘Pirate’ Re-
leases,” TorrentFreak, September 4, 2020, https://torrentfreak.com/scene-
bust-triggered-historic-drop-in-pirate-releases-200904/.

79  David Décary-Hétu, “Police Operations 3.0: On the Impact and Policy 

Implications of Police Operations on the Warez Scene,” Policy & Internet 6, 
no. 3 (September 2014): 317.

278

takedowns

mechanism  that  functions  at  least  tangentially  like  copyright, 
which  prohibits  groups  from  claiming  credit  for  each  others’ 
work.80 At the time that Décary-Hétu was writing, it appeared 
that large-scale piracy bust operations were on the decrease. As 
he puts it, it seemed that “law enforcement agencies have moved 
away  from  large-scale  police  operations.”81  Décary-Hétu  cred-
its this to the “lack of impact” that these operations have had.82 
However, the SPARKS raid of 2020 puts paid to the claim that 
these larger-scale busts of the high-level piracy Scene are a thing 
of  the  past.  Indeed,  the  sporadic  appearance  of  a  police  pres-
ence may be all that is required to maintain the threat of action, 
which may function as a sufficient deterrent to those who would 
be deterred.

In  his  analysis  of  the  decline  of  police  operations,  Décary-
Hétu  compares  the  Scene  to  organized  drug  networks,  which 
share  many  characteristics  (e.g.,  decentralization,  many  small 
actors, high levels of competition). Décary-Hétu points out that 
in the drug world, there are also similar enforcement problems, 
namely that actions tend to result only in short-lived reductions 
in criminal activities and that offenders tend rapidly to adjust 
to  new  mechanisms  to  avoid  detection,  as  the  security  advice 
to siteops in the Scene notice about the SPARKS raids shows. 
On the other hand, the visibility of police operations has been 
shown to work as a deterrent in some cases.

It is also worth noting that it may be both easier and more 
difficult,  in  different  ways,  to  deter  people  from  the  type  of 
crime  with  which  we  are  here  dealing.  A  computer  crime  in-
volves staying at home and rarely leaving the house. It does not 
come with the same level of risk and violence as drug dealing. 
On the one hand, it may be easier to deter people from the crime 
because  there  are  few  coercive  threats  that  group  leaders  can 
use against Warez Scene members. Generally, these individuals 
are free to leave at any time, which is certainly not the case in 

80  Ibid., 318.
81  Ibid., 321.
82  Ibid.

 279

warez

drug cartels, which have systems of enforced bondage that hold 
mules and others in servitude with an extreme threat of physical 
violence. In this sense, it should be easier to deter individuals 
from participating in the Scene. On the other hand, because the 
crime is so easy to commit in one sense — that it only involves 
sitting at one’s desk, regardless of the skill involved — it may be 
harder to persuade people to leave because the risk is not appar-
ent. That is, the crime appears safe, and so offenders will quickly 
return to the activity. Décary-Hétu’s analysis shows that each of 
the above raids had, in the long term, little to no impact on the 
volume of material that was shared through the illicit practices 
of the Warez Scene.83

Scene raids are also challenging to enact from a legal perspec-
tive because they require international cooperation between law 
enforcement units, which may be hard to come by. This is par-
ticularly the case when offenders are based in jurisdictions that 
have, at best, only cordial relationships, such as those between 
Russia and the US. Conversely, in terms of quantitative output, 
raids do not impact on Scene activities, and Décary-Hétu posits 
an important aspect of social disruption. The Warez Scene, he 
notes, is a community of individuals that relies on trust. By in-
jecting federal agents and others into this community, the raids 
disrupt the long-term trust that members can have in one an-
other. It is also certainly the case that due to the high levels of 
interconnectivity and network spread of news, true members of 
the Warez Scene are almost always aware when there has been a 
major police raid or bust.84

While the majority of articles about legal sanctions against 
pirates  are  concerned  with  prosecutions  of  peer-to-peer  (P2P) 
users, large-scale raids and busts against the topsite Scene have 
been  ongoing  for  over  two  decades  now.85  For  the  most  part, 
these busts are episodic and result in sudden, large-scale disrup-

83  Ibid., 327.
84  Ibid., 331.
85  Michael Bachmann, “Lesson Spurned? Reactions of Online Music Pirates 
to Legal Prosecutions by the RIAA,”  International Journal of Cyber Crimi-
nology 1, no. 2 (2007): 213–27.

280

takedowns

tion that then follows a pattern of gradual return to normality 
in the Scene. In particular, the events that were Operation Buc-
caneer  and  Operation  Fastlink  resulted  in  massive,  near-total, 
but temporary shutdowns of the Scene. Conversely, the smaller-
scale arrests and searches, such as the PRQ raids in 2010, paint a 
more continuous story, one in which raids and investigations are 
ongoing all the time. Both types of investigation have benefits 
for law enforcement. If the aim is to deter the activity, then the 
breakthrough moments of Buccaneer and Fastlink highlighted 
law-enforcement operations and gave a jolt of fear to those who 
participate. By contrast, the narrative of smaller scale, but con-
tinuous, investigation is helpful to law enforcement for instilling 
a sense among perpetrators of being continuously watched and 
monitored. It also helps to damage trust among Scene members 
who may be more and more reticent to share personal details 
with each other, which can then disrupt operations.

It is important to note that while most Scene practices take 
place anonymously in and on private and encrypted IRC chan-
nels and servers, there seem always to be weak points that law 
enforcement  officers  can  exploit.  Consider  the  early  days  of 
Fairlight, where gollum received packages by train courier, but 
founder  and  supplier  Tony  Krvaric,  strider,  clearly  knew  his 
name and address. Things are very different now, but it remains 
the case that if there are copy protections on a disk, it may be 
necessary to ship the physical item from a supplier to a cracker 
or  copy-protection  specialist.  While  it  is  possible  to  use  mail 
routing facilities and P.O. Boxes, for instance, to obfuscate the 
trail of physical media and postage, these also introduce delays 
that may cost a release group the race. Indeed, this demand for 
speed will, in the end, be the undoing of many individuals. To 
meet the tight turnaround times required in racing to beat copy 
protections, individuals are likely to take more significant risks 
concerning anonymity. Security is always a trade-off that must 
balance protection against convenience. When the balance tips 
too far in favor of the latter, law enforcement has an opportunity 
to intervene.

 281

warez

Sites  also  rely  on  donations  of  both  finance  and  hardware, 
as testified by the role of “hardware supplier.” Before 2009, any 
transfer  of  money  would  have  been  traceable  by  law  enforce-
ment  agencies.  However,  the  anonymity  of  cash  at  Western 
Union,  for  instance,  can  make  this  much  harder  than  follow-
ing  the  money  on  Paypal  and  other  online  service  providers, 
which  provide  greater  convenience  at  the  expense  of  security. 
In  2009  with  the  release  of  Bitcoin,  tracing  financial  transac-
tions  became  a  much  more  complex  process.  The  anonymity 
of Bitcoin and other blockchain-based cryptocurrencies is cer-
tainly appealing for those in the Warez Scene. It allows the easy 
transfer of funds without the risk of getting caught. At the same 
time, though, Bitcoin is a problematic currency if used for any 
real-world purchases because it is so volatile.86 Indeed, it is en-
tirely possible that within a twenty-four-hour window, the cryp-
tocurrency’s value will have altered so dramatically as to make 
it impossible to carry out the intended purchase. There is also 
as likely a chance that the funds will have risen in value; it just 
cannot  be  known  ahead  of  time.  Intermediaries  that  can  help 
to mitigate these problems will inevitably re-introduce the very 
aspects of regulatory oversight and identity verification whose 
absence made these currencies appealing to Sceners in the first 
place.87 Nonetheless, Bitcoin poses substantial, new challenges 
for law enforcement officers who wish to use financial tracing as 
a mechanism to hunt down site operators.

In  this  chapter  I  have  detailed  the  major  busts  against  the 
Scene over the past two decades, up to the most recent raids on 
the SPARKS group in 2020. As I argued from the outset, study-
ing formal, legal documents, such as court indictments and DOJ 
press releases, about the Scene can help cement our understand-
ing of the practices therein, which are usually opaque and only 
verified by documents produced within the Scene itself. It is also 

86  William J. Luther, “Bitcoin and the Future of Digital Payments,” The Inde-

pendent Review 20, no. 3 (Winter 2015/2016): 397–404.

87  Cameron Harwick, “Cryptocurrency and the Problem of Intermediation,” 

The Independent Review 20, no. 4 (Spring 2016): 569–88.

282

takedowns

interesting to note that most studies of the Scene focus on these 
raids in the discipline of digital criminology. Much research into 
the  Scene  has  been  conducted  on  this  legalistic  aspect,  warp-
ing some of the historical understandings in favor of analyses 
of practices shadowed by industry discourses. It also means that 
studies of Scene prosecutions often conflate actions against this 
highest level of the piracy pyramid with action against P2P file 
sharers. As it has been the goal of this book to document, this is 
an extreme category error. The motivations, actions, and organi-
zation of the Warez Scene are in an entirely different space to 
those found lower down the piracy food chain. Yet, regardless of 
whether we reframe the Scene in terms of an alternative reality 
game, the reality is that the stakes in such a game are extremely 
high and have often resulted in prison sentences.

 283

Conclusion

This  book  has  detailed  the  operations,  the  artforms,  the  soci-
ality,  the  technical  infrastructures,  and  the  legality  of  the  un-
derground,  computer  subculture  known  as  the  Warez  Scene. 
Distinct from other levels of piracy, such as the popular, public 
Bittorrent communities, this highly organized and efficient digi-
tal, criminal underworld is characterized by its sophistication, 
logistical  savvy,  and  relative  lack  of  mainstream  prominence. 
Emerging from the computer art DemoScene of the early 1990s, 
the Scene has shown itself to be resilient to legal attack, profes-
sional in its security and organization, and well resourced in its 
operation.

The  Scene  is  a  highly  organized  space  specializing  in  the 
release  of  software,  movies,  music,  pornography,  and  other 
media forms before the official release dates of these items for 
sale. Growing from the DemoScene in the 1990s and sharing a 
common  core  of  skilled  ability  to  disassemble  and  crack  soft-
ware, the Scene is a sophisticated operation that involves sup-
pliers,  crackers,  groups,  testers,  leaders,  sites,  site  operators, 
IRC  networks,  bot  suppliers,  FTPD  coders,  prebots,  bouncers, 
ASCII  artists,  demo  programmers,  musicians,  artists,  couriers, 
autotraders,  nukers,  NukeNets,  quotas,  rules  and  standards, 
charts, codes of conduct, loyalties, betrayals, infiltrations, take-
downs, court cases, public news commentary, private informa-
tion  channels,  rumors,  hacking  and  cracking,  hardware  sup-

 285

 
warez

plies, humor, homophobia, racism, bragging, cheating, stealing, 
mystique, and drudgery. It is a mythical space in its secrecy yet 
one that continually must rear its head in public to receive the 
legitimation and adulation that its members desire. The Scene 
is an elaborate performance of elitism, played in private, yet one 
that requires a public stage on which to act out its status. While 
some  Scene  members  undoubtedly  do  manage  to  keep  their 
heads down and work forever in the shadows, the lure for others 
is always too great, a fact evidenced in how Scene releases end 
up on public torrent sites and in other venues outside of their 
own formal structures.

Core to the argument of this book has been the contention 
that the Warez Scene is less about piracy itself and access to the 
end artifacts of that process than it is about a high-stakes alter-
native reality game of elitism and competition. Despite allega-
tions that pirates might be communists or socialists who believe 
in the free sharing of anything for anyone, the truth of the mat-
ter  is  that,  structurally,  the  Scene  is  a  highly  competitive  and 
economic space that thrives on scarcity. There are very few top 
slots on topsites, fought over by many competitors. The Scene 
has an elaborate ruleset for its game that is structurally enforced 
by the presence of NukeNets and local nukers, by release rule 
standards,  and  by  an  honor  code  and  the  notion  of  a  lifelong 
SceneBan. Far from an equitable space in which all players are 
equal, the Scene more accurately resembles an extreme, laissez-
faire, capitalist marketplace, in which intra-agent competition 
and inequality represent the core conditions.1 While there is no 
over-arching authority that enforces these market circumstanc-
es as we might see in historical Ordoliberal economic regimes, 
the accrued authority of top Sceners make de facto pronounce-
ments the core operational principles and, by default, set a se-
ries of rules in place.

1  For more on the role of inequality in contemporary capitalist economies, 
see William Davies, The Limits of Neoliberalism: Authority, Sovereignty 
and the Logic of Competition (Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications, 2014).

286

conclusion

The Warez Scene is nonetheless difficult to research. Other 
books, such as Paul Craig’s Software Piracy Exposed, use a range 
of interview techniques, conscripting Sceners who were willing 
to speak and provide anecdotes on condition of anonymity. In 
this work, I have adopted a different approach. While it is pos-
sible  to  garner  background  information  on  the  Scene  and  its 
operation from secondary academic sources, my approach has 
been to seek out original documentary artifacts from the Scene 
and  to  infer  its  operations  from  these  archival  objects. This  is 
possible  due  to  the  DeFacto2  archive,  among  other  sources, 
which hoards a wealth of NFO files, DemoScene executables, and 
other Scene documents.

However, the very existence of these artifacts points to a core 
contention of this book: the Warez Scene should also be con-
sidered  an  aesthetic  subculture.  A  type  of  “geek  community,” 
topsites are styled and have their own advertorial NFO files — re-
lease groups, likewise. Hence, the entire Scene is structured on a 
delicate balance between showcasing one’s activities and seeking 
to remain hidden. It is a world in which show-off egotists and 
narcissists  seek  constant  validation  through  the  circulation  of 
credit and respect but also one in which the entire subculture 
must remain hidden for legal reasons. While Sceners prize repu-
tation within the Scene, it is clearly not enough, and the fame 
of conducting covert interviews with piracy news sites, such as 
TorrentFreak, proves too tempting for many. It is thanks to these 
artifacts  that  document  and  advertise  the  efforts  of  the  Scene 
that this book was possible. The subculture of the Warez Scene 
cannot bear to keep itself dull or quiet, and it is the presence of 
these aesthetic objects that leads to information leakage.

The  aesthetic  subculture  of  the  players  in  the  Warez  Scene 
works similarly to many other geek communities, though with 
some  key  differences.  While  the  DemoScene  group,  Fairlight, 
met in person legally once, most Sceners will never know one 
another’s  identities.  There  are  some  exceptions  to  this;  on  oc-
casion, the supply of artifacts will require the transfer of physi-
cal media between parties within a release group, which leads 
to potential points of compromise. Again, it takes only one slip 

 287

warez

of identity and address for such information to become near-
permanently incriminating for participants.

For  this  reason,  most  Sceners  appear  to  do  a  good  job  of 
keeping their identities unknown, existing only under the ali-
ases of their pseudonymous online personae. Nonetheless, for 
many Sceners, this underground culture is their main life iden-
tity. It is more than just a way to acquire content. As Torrent-
Freak  put  it:  the  Scene  is  “a  stress  headache  that  most  pirates 
can  do  without,”  and  it  is  not  wholly  clear  why  people  would 
participate  if  the  goal  were  simply  to  acquire  pirate  media.2 
While it is true that “many people aspire to become a ‘member’” 
of the Scene to hope “to bathe in the collective mystery, kudos 
and notoriety,” the volume of effort that is invested is not com-
mensurate to the access that is gained or provided.3 Instead, as 
this article continues, “if people really must obtain all the latest 
movies and TV shows for free, doing it quietly via torrent sites 
seems  much,  much  less  stressful  than  getting  tightly  involved 
in  The  Scene  or  anyone  close  to  it.  Indeed,  The  Scene  seems 
more of a complex lifestyle choice than a hobby for many par-
ticipants, but one that could implode at any second.”4 The Scene 
is not just a sideshow way to obtain content. It is an entire social 
structure, or an alternative reality game, that seems to become 
the dominant model of life activity for many participants. While 
it is easy to deride such geek or nerd cultures for the unusual 
form of social contact they represent — and the Scene is weirder 
than most with its level of illegality — it is a mistake to underes-
timate the sociality of this space.

In  this  respect,  law  enforcement  often  misunderstands  the 
Scene. Although the law is correct, in one sense, in viewing it as 
a criminal cartel intent on multimedia piracy on a broader scale, 
even if not with a broader userbase, than any other operation, 

2  Andy Maxwell, “The Scene: A Stress Headache That Most Pirates Can Do 
Without,” TorrentFreak, September 6, 2020, https://torrentfreak.com/the-
scene-a-stress-headache-that-most-pirates-can-do-without-200906/.
Ibid.
Ibid.

3 
4 

288

conclusion

simply punishing Sceners as such has unilaterally failed to stem 
the flow of releases. Instead, legal efforts thus far have played a 
game of whack-a-mole with topsites and release groups, steadily 
infiltrating them only to cut off a single head before the whole 
thing starts up again. Certainly, this approach does act as a de-
terrent  for  some  Scene  members.  Retirements  do  seem  to  be 
announced in the wake of busts. However, law enforcement ef-
forts have generally been unsuccessful at stopping the Scene en 
masse. This is probably partially because less effort is invested in 
curbing the Warez Scene when it constitutes such a small slice 
of the general piracy pie, even if it makes up a core supply route 
for downstream activities. But the agencies tasked with shutting 
down the Scene are simply not as well resourced as they would 
need to be to stem the tide. The Scene is also, to mix metaphors, 
a  keystone  to  the  bridge  of  the  entire  pirate  distribution  net-
work. Removing the Scene causes many other public elements 
to collapse, and anti-piracy efforts need to do what they can to 
stop the linchpin work of the Scene. Nonetheless, legal efforts 
remain more tightly focused on the mass-scale piracy in public, 
such as The Pirate Bay and its ilk. Given that these too have had 
limited  success,  it  seems  unlikely  that  mass-scale  legal  action 
against the Scene is likely to win soon.

Another indication of how the Scene is more than an outfit 
based  on  access  to  pirate  material,  and  is  more  akin  to  a  life-
style  subculture  or  all-engrossing,  alternative  reality  game,  is 
the development of specific language vocabularies and humor 
among participants. For example, the well-known phenomenon 
of  l33tspeak  or  “leetspeak”  sits  in  ambiguous  tension  among 
Sceners. While this language is used and members need a work-
ing  knowledge  of  its  linguistic  codes,  it  is  also  true  that  leet-
speak is deployed ironically in many cases. The insider linguis-
tic codes that developed in these computer subcultures are also 
seen  as  somewhat  regressively  childish,  which  is  unsurprising 
given that most Sceners appear to be on the cusp of middle age. 
Hence, uncritical blasts of leetspeak are not likely to gain much 
kudos, but a knowing irony pervades many of the Scene docu-
ments in the DeFacto2 archive.

 289

warez

Scene  humor  possesses  an  ironic  quality  but  also  relies  on 
extreme  levels  of  insider  know-how.  While  the  level  of  actual 
amusement such material can generate is debatable, this is not 
its purpose. Such humor functions as another demarcation of 
insider and outsider status. The role here is not to make people 
laugh but to allow Sceners to congratulate themselves on getting 
the joke, even if it is not funny. When “quotes of the week” fea-
ture either named or anonymized individuals, the Scener who 
can say that they “saw the original” or who can reveal to others 
the hidden identity in anonymized cases performs the posses-
sion  of  an  esoteric  knowledge,  demonstrating  further  elitism. 
Part of playing the alternative reality game of the Scene lies in 
social networking.

However,  the  naming  of  individuals  in  quotes  of  the  week 
for humorous purposes is the perfect example of risk-taking be-
havior in the Scene. Of course, a truly professionalized criminal 
network would hardly flaunt the identifiable, online nicknames 
in  documents  that,  although  private,  inevitably  find  their  way 
into unintended hands. Nevertheless, this desire to perform in 
semi-public is an instance of how the Scene functions as an aes-
thetic subculture, and not, despite its extensive security precau-
tions, a purely criminal endeavor.

There is some debate as to whether the Scene will continue in 
all its forms. The MP3 and then FLAC Scenes that emerged to dis-
tribute music have in many ways been eclipsed by the success of 
Oink’s Pink Palace, What.CD, and other current and private, Bit-
torrent trackers. Arguably, these torrent sites can achieve greater 
total coverage of all music media than was ever accomplished 
by  the  Scene.  On  the  other  hand,  none  of  these  systems  have 
survived as long as the Warez Scene. Lasting just a few years in 
each case, these sites have also only gained near-comprehensive 
coverage  by  having  a  userbase  that  is  permeable,  if  not  open. 
In turn, this presents a far larger attack surface for law enforce-
ment. In other words, compared to the security precautions of 
the Scene, private Bittorrent trackers are significantly less safe 
and a great deal more centralized while requiring broader ac-
cess. All three features contribute to better coverage of the pirate 

290

conclusion

media that these systems contain, but they also make it expo-
nentially more likely that such sites will be shut down.

The Scene must strike a delicate balance between openness 
to meritocracy and working with known individuals who can be 
trusted. The more raids that are conducted upon the Scene, the 
more the upper hierarchies will close down to admit only those 
with a proven track record of safety. This leads to negative con-
sequences  from  the  Scene’s  perspective.  Without  fresh  supply 
routes and new coding talent, the release supply chain quickly 
dries up. This is why it is interesting that there is a pecking order 
of release groups. While younger, less experienced, and less pres-
tigious release groups often advertise a contact method in their 
NFO for new prospective members to get in touch, these are not 
present among the higher echelons. Instead, these groups tend 
to prefer to watch and wait. When new members of the Scene 
have proven themselves among the lower release groups, they 
may be invited to the more prestigious ranks. In other words, 
there is a process — almost akin to Artists and Repertoire (A&R) 
recruiting in the music industry — by which new members are 
audited  and  judged.  This  keeps  the  top  tier  of  the  Scene  rela-
tively safe from most busts, even while it exposes those further 
down the food chain.

One of the problems with breaking up the Scene is that there 
is  no  equivalent  online  social  structure  from  which  ex-mem-
bers can get their adrenaline fix. Other communities that focus 
on  hoarding  and  accumulating,  or  even  just  collecting,  have 
also been destroyed in the wake of the internet. As we reach an 
era in which the world of, for example, crate digging for rare 
records has been outshone by the comprehensive databases of 
Discogs  and  other  online  retailers,  it  is  ever  harder  for  those 
with prestige addiction to find an outlet for their love of com-
petition and scarcity.

As a final conclusion, the Warez Scene, which continues to 
this day, is a major, underground alternative reality game. A se-
cret computer aesthetic subculture, it is a significant but over-
looked player in the contemporary digital world. This book has 
hoped to shed some light on its practices and mechanisms.

 291

Appendix: Topsites and Dumps in 
the shroo.ms nfo.sites Collection

This  appendix  lists  the  most  that  is  known  about  a  variety  of 
topsites operating at the turn of the millennium using the most 
recent information that can be gathered about each site from the 
shroo.ms nfo.sites collection at DeFacto2. Location is inferred 
from statements such as “ehq” (presumed to mean “European 
headquarters”) or more specific data where available. Hardware 
and  software  configurations  are  the  last  known  listing.  Un-
sourced fields in the table are drawn from the NFO referenced 
in  the  “sitename”  field.  For  expediency,  known  affils  (“affiliat-
eds”) are the last-listed set only in the most recently dated NFO 
available,  unless  a  non-dated  NFO  contains  more  information. 
Occasionally this means that important affiliation changes are 
lost (e.g., The Bleach Box was previously an affil of the signifi-
cant group, Razor 1911, in October 1996 but seems to have lost 
this status by December of that year or at least no longer adver-
tises  it.  The  same  goes  for  The  Boxer  Rebellion  and  Terminal 
Velocity.).1 Dates of information validity are listed in the refer-

1  BB, “The Bleach Box Topsite (BBX-bleach.box.1996.10.17.nfo),” October 17, 
1996, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip; TBR, 
“The Boxer Rebellion Topsite (TBR-the.boxer.rebellion.1997.12.09.nfo),” 
December 9, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip; TV, “Terminal Velocity Topsite (TV-terminal.velocity.1998.12.27.

 293

 
warez

ence. Capitalization of affiliated groups is as written in the NFO. 
Affiliations do not distinguish between release groups, courier 
groups,  or  even  individuals,  but  merely  present  the  listing  as 
shown in the NFO. Sites are ordered by the abbreviation given in 
the shroo.ms pack, hence some sites are under “T” where their 
name begins with “The” while others are not.

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

7222

Absolute 
Zero (A0)3

PINNACLE, 
OXYGEN

Abrupt, 
Pentium Force 
Team, The Force 
Team, Sea Shell 
Commando

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

LooZtrA, Khaotic, 
Zarkof, Astral0

TheViking, Pandy, 
Pingu

“T3 10GB”

USA

BioVirus, BoB

“T1 – 25 GiG”

Cyberjoy

Area One 
Four Four 
(A144)4

EcG, Demise, 
ACE, Para-
mount, RTA

Always 
Around For-
ever (AAF)5

United Warez, 
NATOSOFT, 
Impact, City-
warez, Boost, 
Legendaries

Avatar (A)

nfo),” December 27, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip. For more on the longstanding significance of Razor 1911, see 
Patryk Wasiak, “Telephone Networks, BBSes, and the Emergence of the 
Transnational ‘Warez Scene’,” History and Technology 35, no. 2 (2019): 189.
2  722, “722 Topsite (722-722.1998.06.12.nfo),” June 12, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.

scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

3  A0, “Absolute Zero Topsite (A0-absolute.zero.XXXX.XX.01.nfo),” n.d., 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

4  A144, “Area One Four Four Topsite (A144-area.one.four.four.XXXX.

XX.00.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

5  AAF, “Always Around Forever Topsite (AAF-always.around.forev-

er.1998.07.18.nfo),” July 18, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

294

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

USA7

Europe9

Poland

The Abyss 
(ABY)6

AiR Force 
One (AF1)8

Angel Food 
(AF)10

HERiTAGE, 
DESYNC, 
AVALON, 
VOLiTiON

MYTH, Shock, 
FCN, ECL, UCF, 
TMG, CSWCN, 
TST

“9Gb”
“2xt3”
“(soon 
155mbit)”

ZONE, 
SiLENCE, 
XCRYPT, 
PriORITY, 
DEMON,LZ0, 
oDDiTY, 
PROPHECY, 
HTG, UCF, RBS

The Ant Hill 
(AH)11

Fate, Masque, 
Rebels

6  ABY, “The Abyss Topsite (ABY-abyss.1999.06.28.nfo),” June 28, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
7  TDA, “The Digital Afterlife Topsite Ring (TDA-the.digital.after-

life.1997.01.20.nfo),” January 20, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

8  AF1, “AiR Force One Topsite (AF1-air.force.one.2000.04.12.nfo),” April 12, 

2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

9  AF1, “AiR Force One Topsite (AF1-air.force.one.1998.02.12.nfo),” February 
12, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
10  AF, “Angel Food Topsite (AF-angel.food.2000.09.21.nfo),” September 21, 
2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
11  AH, “The Ant Hill Topsite (AH-the.anthill.1997.06.18.nfo),” June 18, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 295

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Europe

Arrakis 
(AKS)12

“4 bxs.eu”

myth, htg,int, 
dqf, tmg, fcn, 
amnesia, privcd, 
dvnvcd, domin-
ion, divxcz, lfc, 
pdxn64, nme, 
cms, bpm, chr, 
ego

Agnos Land 
(AL)13

Althea 
(ALT)14

KFK, IrN, KAC, 
MOTiV8

“80 GiGz”
“OC3 Link”

USA

Ambiquous 
(AMB)15

Renaissance, 
RiSE, GPF, Di-
vine Canadian, 
RTN, GCRACK 
NA

The Angry 
Moose 
(AM)16

CoRE, 
PtM,dSC, tfH, 
PiRASofT

“T1”
“9 Gigs Online”

Apocalypse 
(APC)17

AMNESiA, 
REBELS, 
DiViNE,TFT, 
MiSSiON

Canada

Europe

12  AKS, “Arrakis Topsite (AKS-arrakis.2000.06.01.nfo),” June 1, 2000, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

13  AL, “Agnos Land Topsite (AL-agnos.land.1998.09.06.nfo),” September 6, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
14  ALT, “Althea Topsite (ALT-althea.1999.09.22.nfo),” September 22, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

15  AMB, “Ambiquous Topsite (AMB-ambiquous.1998.02.18.nfo),” February 
18, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
16  AM, “The Angry Moose Topsite (AM-the.angry.moose.1997.08.06.nfo),” 
August 6, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

17  APC, “Apocalypse Topsite (APC-apocalypse.1999.12.10.nfo),” December 
10, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

296

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

USA19

“100 MBIT”

USA

Alpha Stor-
age Place 
(ASP)18

Atlantis 
(ATL)20

Atomic-X 
(ATX)21

AMNESiA, X-
FoRcE, ONYX

CORE, MYTH, 
PARADOX, 
oDD-
iTy, LIZZARD, 
ZENITH, 
LAXiTY, UCF, 
HERiTAGE, 
LaTeX, AOD, 
HSCONSOLE, 
LNDiSO, CN-
CiSO, RBSiSO, 
PDXCONSOLE

KAC, ORIGIN, 
pHASE, 
VENGEANCE, 
RENEGADE, 
REVOLUTION

Alternate 
Void (AV)22

FCN, UCF2000, 
PHX, EcGiSO

“10 Mb/s”
“20 Gigs”

Canada

18  ASP, “Alpha Storage Place Topsite (ASP-alpha.storage.place.1998.08.27.
nfo),” August 27, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

19  ASP, “Alpha Storage Place Topsite (ASP-alpha.storage.place.1997.10.12.

nfo),” October 12, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

20  ATL, “Atlantis Topsite (ATL-atlantis.XXXX.XX.01.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

21  ATX, “Atomic-X Topsite (ATX-atomic.x.1999.05.05.nfo),” May 5, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

22  AV, “Alternate Void Topsite (AV-alternate.void.1998.11.26.nfo),” November 
26, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 297

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

A Vio-
lent Fluid 
(AVF)23

Avalon 
(AVL)24

Another 
World 
(AW)25

Alien Zone 
(AZ)26

Back to 
Babylon 
(B2B)27

TRPS, CRC, 
EXPRESS, 
MAGi, ZO-
DIAC, nZPD, 
SSC

“12+ GiG”
“MULTi-T1 
connection 
[T1x5]”

“30GB”

IWA, DWA, 
GLOW, 
ISOWORLD, 
REALM, DIS-
FUNCTION, 
ILLISIVE, DTD, 
MOI

Europe

“t3+ speed”
“50 GiG”

Europe

ActArUS, CybeRBoB, 
Cdogg

Atomik

ESPRiT, 
ECLiPSE, 
PINNACLE, 
ESPIRIT, 
FLUKE

HERITAGE, 
DUNE, FU-
SION

Robinhood, 
Rockdorce, 
SYNiCAL, Coa-
lition, WLW, 
SWP, RTS, 
iNTENSiTY, 
DK, Weapon, 
PREVAiL, FFB, 
Pride, SCE

23  AVF, “A Violent Fluid Topsite (AVF-a.violent.fluid.1997.11.18.nfo),” Novem-
ber 18, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

24  AVL, “Avalon Topsite (AVL-avalon.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

25  AW, “Another World Topsite (AW-another.world.1999.07.02.nfo),” July 2, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
26  AZ, “Alien Zone Topsite (AZ-alien.zone.1998.07.29.nfo),” July 29, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

27  B2B, “Back to Babylon Topsite (B2B-back.to.babylon.1998.05.21.nfo),” May 
21, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

298

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

“100Mbit FD”
“100 Gb”

The Neth-
erlands

Beyond 
All Reality 
(BAR)28

FLUKE, AMBi-
ENCE, EM-
BRACE, EPS, 
LND, oDDiTy, 
AMNESiA, Eli-
lApda, OriON, 
NLRiP, RTP, 
JADE, CAiNE

Basilica 
(BAS)29

CORP, CST, 
DMSISO, 
RBSISO

“LINUX/
GLFTPD”
“50+ GIGS”

Brand Beer 2 
(BB2)30

ENTiTY, 
DYNASTY, 
PARADiGM, 
UCF, DiMEN-
SiON

Busy Beavers 
(BB)31

ReZ, GWA, 
BLiZzARD

Europe

“34 MBit”
“50 GB”
“LiNUX”
“gl-FTPd”

Hoopy, Stefan_, JG, 
AC-504, MeDlor, 
Twister, Cruller

The Bleach 
Box (BBX)32

RiSC, Scotch, 
FCN

“250 GB”

USA

bftpd33

28  BAR, “Beyond All Reality Topsite (BAR-beyond.all.reality.XXXX.XX.00.
nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

29  BAS, “Basilica Topsite (BAS-basilica.1999.04.22.nfo),” April 22, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

30  BB2, “Brand Beer 2 Topsite (BB2-brand.beer.two.1998.07.02.nfo),” July 2, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
31  BB, “Busy Beavers Topsite (BB-busy.beavers.1999.03.25.nfo),” March 25, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

32  BB, “The Bleach Box Topsite (BBX-bleach.box.1996.12.19.nfo),” December 
19, 1996, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
33  lester, “Which Ftpd Is Right for You?,” Netmonkey Weekly Report (Nwr36.

Txt), February 22, 1999.

 299

warez

Sitename

Beat Diz 
(BZ)34

Black Forge 
(BF)35

Black Lotus 
(BL)36

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

CROSSFIRE, 
CiA, Priority, 
FLUKE, LaTeX, 
CEREbRi

ADDICTION, 
PHOENIX, 
GPF, TRPS, 
MAD

USA

“30 GB”
“Blazing Fast 
Cable”

“Linux-2.0.30”
“xftpd”
“5 gigz”
“T1 link-up 
speed”

Debber

The Blade 
(BLD)37

Nobliege, Esprit, 
Versus

Blizzard 
(BLIZ)38

Byte Me 
(BM)40

2000AD, RE-
VOLT, DEVO-
TiON

2000AD, CRC, 
iTR, PDM, 
KALiSTO

“T3”
“103GB+”

Europe

Europe39

USA

34  BDZ, “Beat Diz Topsite (BDZ-beatdiz.2000.11.20.nfo),” November 20, 
2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
35  BF, “Black Forge Topsite (BF-black.forge.1998.05.01.nfo),” May 1, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

36  BL, “Black Lotus Topsite (BL-black.lotus.1997.06.12.nfo),” June 12, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

37  BLD, “The Blade Topsite (BLD-the.blade.1998.03.23.nfo),” March 23, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

38  BLIZ, “Blizzard Topsite (BLIZ-blizzard.1997.12.06.nfo),” December 6, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

39  BLIZ, “Blizzard Topsite (BLIZ-blizzard.1997.06.02.nfo),” June 2, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

40  BM, “Byte Me Topsite (BM-byte.me.1999.04.15.nfo),” April 15, 1999, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

300

appendix

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Zilch, Aardvack

USA

Vortech, ShagNasty, 
JeSsTeR, A1odor

Hardware providers:
N.O.S., Fitz, R00K, 
ANON

hammer, fo_twenny

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Blood Pit 
(BP)41

Havoc97, Tft, 
Goe

“T1”
“8Gb”
“3 Online 
CD:s”
“Offline Re-
questing”

Bits Per Sec-
ond (BPS)42

Babylon 
Trading Post 
(BTS)43

CRC, SYNICAL, 
EWA, W1W, 
KYLIN, ILL, 
LG, SWP

“Dual T1 
Speed”
“18 Gigs On-
line”

The Beggar’s 
Tomb (BT)44

NATOsoft, 
zerawleets

“t1”
“13+gb”

The Bull 
(BULL)45

41  BP, “Blood Pit Topsite (BP-blood.pit.1997.04.04.nfo),” April 4, 1997, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

42  BPS, “Bits Per Second Topsite (BPS-bits.per.second.2000.07.03.nfo),” July 
3, 2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
43  BTP, “Babylon Trading Post Topsite (BTP-babylon.trading.post.XXXX.
XX.02.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

44  BT, “The Beggar’s Tomb Topsite (BT-the.beggars.tomb.1998.07.02.nfo),” 

July 2, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

45  BULL, “The Bull Topsite (BULL-the.bull.1997.05.19.nfo),” May 19, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 301

warez

Sitename

Camelot 
(CAM)46

Crawl-
ing Chaos 
(CC)48

Core Dump 
(CD)49

Channel 
One (CH1)51

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

TBS, Digital 
Factory, HAR-
LEM COURI-
ER, COUNCIL, 
BLIZZARD 
COURIER, 
BACKLASH

RefLUX, 
MENTALiTY, 
SOdOM

“dUAL T1 
SiTE”

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Germany47

YtsEJam

Thrill Kill, The White 
Tyger, iNGe, Bob226, 
dr ice

Operation Buccaneer 
bust and raid info 
claims that “Core 
Dump” was a “fed 
site”50

46  CAM, “Camelot Topsite (CAM-camelot.1999.08.29.nfo),” August 29, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

47  CAM, “Camelot Topsite (CAM-camelot.XXXX.XX.02.nfo),” n.d., De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

48  CC, “Crawling Chaos Topsite (CC-crawling.chaos.1998.04.06.nfo),” April 
6, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
49  CD, “Core Dump Topsite (CD-core.dump.1998.08.25.nfo),” August 25, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

50  “SceneBusts10 (scenebusts10.htm),” 2000, paraZite.
51  CH1, “Channel One Topsite (CH1-channel.one.1998.09.05.nfo),” Septem-
ber 5, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

302

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Cold Hell 
(CH)52

UCF, MnMiSO, 
RiSCiSO, WLW, 
RTS, X-Force, 
Divine

Cove Land 
(CL)

DGT

“Two T2 Sys-
tems for a total 
of 70 gigs”
“20 gig for 
releases”
“50 gigs for 
ISO’s”

“100/155ATM”
“9.1GB SCSI”
“PII 450”

Cem-
etery Gates 
(CMG)53

RiSE, MCG 
Courier, Thun-
der

“T1”
“8Gb”54

Covert 
Operation 
(CO)55

Claws of 
Death 
(COD)56

Razor 1911, Leg-
ends Never Die, 
TRSI, CRUX, 
Darkmoon 
Traders

X-FoRCE, 
TRPS, Thunder, 
2000AD

appendix

Location Siteops and Nukers/

USA

Notes

Devestator, C0ld-
bl00d, Symptom, 
AlphaKiller, Swank, 
Mason, Allanon, 
SirCyRo, Girdog, 
One-30

Europe

Anonz, Br4t, [insane]

USA57

52  CH, “Cold Hell Topsite (CH-cold.hell.1998.08.31.nfo),” August 31, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

53  CMG, “Cemetery Gates Topsite (CMG-cemetary.gates.1998.09.21.nfo),” 

September 21, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

54  CMG, “Cemetery Gates Topsite (CMG-cemetary.gates.1998.02.22.nfo),” 
February 22, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

55  CO, “Covert Operation Topsite (CO-covert.operations.1998.08.25.nfo),” 
August 25, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

56  COD, “Claws of Death Topsite (COD-claws.of.death.1998.11.02.nfo),” 

November 2, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

57  COD, “Claws of Death Topsite (COD-claws.of.death.1998.09.18.nfo),” 

September 18, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

 303

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Cong 
(CONG)58

MIRAGE Cou-
rier, Millennium

USA

The Com-
plex (CPX)59

Castle Rock 
County 
(CRC)60

Cash Vault 
(CV)61

rAZOR-1911

MegaPlex, bLACK-
ENED

RiSC, PWA

Europe

“T1+”

UDM, RfX, 
DkS, PDN, hTz, 
Factor, RiSE, 
QTM, TheVoid

Dark Ambi-
tions (DA)62

ML, gNA, 
aBRUPT

“bLAZING 
cABLE”

Canada

DV

58  CONG, “Cong Topsite (CONG-cong.1997.09.21.nfo),” September 21, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

59  CPX, “The Complex Topsite (CPX-the.complex.1997.01.03.nfo),” January 3, 

1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
60  CRC, “Castle Rock County Topsite (CRC-castle.rock.county.1997.04.03.

nfo),” April 3, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

61  CV, “Cash Vault Topsite (CV-cash.vault.1998.08.25.nfo),” April 3, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

62  DA, “Dark Ambitions Topsite (DA-dark.ambitions.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” 
n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

304

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

Divide by 
Zero (DBZ)63

“Two T-3 
Systems”

Eastern US 
Coast64

Legends 
Never Die, 
United Cracking 
Force, Origin, 
Digital Factory, 
DarkSide Inc, 
2000ad, Ger-
man Warez Al-
liance, EViLiSO, 
FCNiSO, KA-
LiSTO, iCOiSO, 
SHOCKiSO

“Full Year 
Round Site”

“186 GB+”

“420GB AR-
CHIVED”

Ico, SirMagik, 
Vorteqz, Iceb, Aboul, 
biggy

FlameSpin, Eagle

Renaissance, 
PWA, UCF

Digital 
Corruption 
(DC)65

Digital 
Crossroads 
(DC)66

Dream Cas-
tle (DC)67

ESPRiT, CRYS-
TAL, GWA, 
hV, TPC, TRSi, 
DeMoN

“a t1”
“6 gigs of 0day 
online”
“33 gigs of 
Appz/GameZ/
CracZ offline”

Europe

63  DBZ, “Divide By Zero Topsite (DBZ-divide.by.zero.2000.01.21.nfo),” Janu-
ary 21, 2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

64  DBZ, “Divide By Zero Topsite (DBZ-divide.by.zero.XXXX.XX.01.nfo),” 
n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

65  DC, “Digital Corruption Topsite (DC-digital.corruption.1998.03.18.nfo),” 
March 18, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

66  DC, “Digital Crossroads Topsite (DC-digital.crossroads.1998.09.02.nfo),” 
September 2, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

67  DC, “Dream Castle Topsite (DC-dream.castle.1999.03.29.nfo),” March 29, 

1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 305

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Daedalus 
(D)68

THD, DVN, 
PRM, iNSPiRE

“DS-3”
“7Gigs”

USA

Dark Data 
(DD)69

Deadeloth 
(DDT)70

DaFat of the 
Land (DF)71

DaFat of 
the Land 2 
(DF2)72

HoW

ESPRIT

“T1”
“25gb”

Shorty, Ryche

East US

“Powered by 
34mbit T3 
Ethernet”
“24 gigs”

East US

DIVINE, FCN, 
MANIFEST 
COURIER, 
REBELS, 
REQUEST TO 
SEND

DIVINE, FCN, 
MANIFEST 
DESTINY 
COURIER, 
REBELS, 
REQUEST 
TO SEND, 
RENEGADE, 
REVOLUTION

68  D, “Daedalus Topsite (D-daedalus.1998.01.05.nfo),” January 5, 1998, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

69  DD, “Dark Data Topsite (DD-dark.data.1998.11.02.nfo),” November 2, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

70  DDT, “Deadeloth Topsite (DDT-deadeloth.1997.11.17.nfo),” November 17, 
1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

71  DF, “DaFat of the Land Topsite (DF-da.fat.1998.09.16.nfo),” September 16, 

1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

72  DF2, “DaFat of the Land 2 Topsite (DF2-da.fat.two.1998.10.14.nfo),” Octo-
ber 14, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

306

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

DaFat of 
the Land 3 
(DF3)73

DagoBah 
System 
(DGB)74

Distorted 
Illusions 
(DI)75

Digital 
Information 
Playground 
(DIP)76

Disaster 
(DIS)77

DARKSTAR, 
DiMENSiON, 
ECLiPSE, 
MANiFEST 
DESTINY, 
PREMIERE, 
RENEGADE 
COURIER, 
REVOLUTION 
COURIER

Pulsar, Motiv8, 
Sphinks, Rts, 
Ulysse, Magma

CuRRuPTioN, 
aBRuPT, PCW, 
eSTeeM

“17 mbit”
“210+ gigs”

Poohy, Cleanup, 
Gramons

“10mb Kable”
“GIGS: 16”

USA

DiPSTiK, ELF_BOY, 
NJVAMPIRE, PHA-
RO, MUFFINMAN, 
|BOBO|, SOULBEN-
DR, JOOBIE, TOM-
CAT, DeeZ-NuTZ, 
RoWBie

REBELS ’97

Norway Mr. Spoof, Crypto

73  DF3, “DaFat of the Land 3 Topsite (DF3-da.fat.three.1999.06.05.nfo),” June 
5, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
74  DGB, “DagoBah System Topsite (DGB-dagobah.1998.11.19.nfo),” Novem-
ber 19, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
75  DI, “Distorted Illusions Topsite (DI-distorted.illusions.XXXX.XX.01.nfo),” 

n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
76  DIP, “Digital Information Playground Topsite (DIP-digital.information.
playground.1998.02.28.nfo),” February 28, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

77  DIS, “Disaster Topsite (DIS-disaster.1997.02.13.nfo),” February 13, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 307

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Digital King-
dom (DK)78

BSC, DPN, BLC, 
DSN, XPT, ABT, 
CiFE, Request-
VCD

“ATM DS3 
45Mbit”
“52 GiG + 
14CD-ROM”

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

LiNuXBuG, Madd-
Doc79

Dark Land 
(DL)80

TFA, ORI-
GIN, DiViNE, 
FALLEN, lSD, 
KALiSTO

DreamLand 
(DL)81

CRYSTAL, 
RAZOR1911, 
PHOENIX

Delerium 
(DLM)82

CLASS, 
RiSCiSO, SIEGE 
Courier

“50 Gig Online 
Running 
dFTPD”

Darklands 
(DLS)83

BLiZZARD, 
LEGENDS 
NEVER DiE, 
VERSUS, 
EQUALITY, 
RAZOR 1911, 
PROPHECY

United 
Kingdom

aXEN, Opel, sacX, 
Blas, poo, Judge, 
Slick, Raidman

USA

The Neth-
erlands

78  DK, “Digital Kingdom Topsite (DK-digital.kingdom.1999.11.17.nfo),” 

November 17, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

79  DK, “Digital Kingdom Topsite (DK-digital.kingdom.1999.08.25.nfo),” 
August 25, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

80  DL, “Dark Land Topsite (DL-dark.land.1999.01.13.nfo),” January 13, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

81  DL, “DreamLand Topsite (DL-dream.land.1999.04.27.nfo),” April 27, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

82  DLM, “Delerium Topsite (DLM-delirium.1998.05.20.nfo),” May 20, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

83  DLS, “Darklands Topsite (DLS-darklands.2000.03.26.nfo),” March 26, 
2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

308

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Sitename

Dream 
Machine 
(DM)84

appendix

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Dream, Dark 
Thunder, MDios, 
MarkGoh

sativa, morse

Damn Na-
tion (DN)85

LTC, RC, TEN-
UREMMI

Digital 
Overload 
(DO)86

Department 
of Pure 
Ecstacy 
(DOPE)87

TRPS COU-
RIER, AOD, 
CORP COU-
RIER

D.-.P.A.R.T.-
M.E.N.T 
(DPT-d)88

PWA, CNC, 
GWA, BLZ, 
AMOK, NBD

The Duplex 
(DPX)89

MOTiV8, SYN, 
SENATE, TDA

Europe

pozest, phromo, 
houdis, freakshow

“XX MBiTZ”
“22 GiGZ”

d-fens, peter, krusher, 
thejudge, twister, bv-
cyp, sol, fiD0

MoLdy, WKNiGHT, 
DAV321, Beck, 
UsurpeR, Doc-X

84  DM, “Dream Machine Topsite (DM-dream.machine.1997.10.14.nfo),” 

October 14, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

85  DN, “Damn Nation Topsite (DN-damn.nation.1998.08.25.nfo),” August 25, 

1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

86  DO, “Digital Overload Topsite (DO-digital.overload.1998.04.19.nfo),” April 
19, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
87  DOPE, “Department of Pure Ecstacy Topsite (DOPE-department.of.pure.
ecstacy.1999.03.31.nfo),” March 31, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collec-
tion.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

88  DPT-d, “D.-.P.A.R.T.M.E.N.T Topsite (DPT-d.partment.1999.03.12.nfo),” 
March 12, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

89  DPX, “The Duplex Topsite (DPX-duplex.1997.04.01.nfo),” April 1, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 309

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Dropzone 
(DPZ)90

“10mbit”
“100gigs 
online”

PARADOX, 
BLIZZARD, 
oDDiTy, 
DiSTiNCT, iN-
TUTiLS, ECN, 
PRiORiTY, 
SPHiNKS, PGC, 
ATM, DS, POW

Dismal 
Surrection 
(DST)91

The Dark 
Side (DS)92

LND, MFD, 
PDM, UCF

FUTURE, KAC, 
TRPS, cX, HER-
iTAGE, XPC

Ditto 
(DTO)93

jAG, EcG, 
iNTRiGUE98

“10gb+”
“cable speed”

Diamond 
Valley 
(DV)94

RTS COURiER, 
Rebels, Weapon, 
TRPS

“72MBit Frac 
OC3”

Dixieland 
(DXL)95

ZerawLeetZ, 
Drink or Die

“a fat T3 pipe”

Poland

West Coast 
USA

USA

WarezWulf, Swan, 
|Napalm|, Birocratu, 
BoNz0

xVeNoMx

Please beware that 
site NFO is deeply 
racially offensive.

Danger Zone 
(DZ)96

MUTH, 
SCOTCH, 
TFTiSO, TFT

Sweden

90  DPZ, “Dropzone Topsite (DPZ-dropzone.2000.09.25.nfo),” September 25, 

2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

91  DST, “Dismal Surrection Topsite (DST-dismal.surrection.1999.07.27.nfo),” 
July 27, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
92  DS, “The Dark Side Topsite (DS-the.dark.side.1998.08.19.nfo),” August 19, 

1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
93  DTO, “Ditto Topsite (DTO-ditto.1998.10.01.nfo),” October 1, 1998, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

94  DV, “Diamond Valley Topsite (DV-diamond.valley.1998.07.27.nfo),” July 27, 

1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
95  DXL, “Dixieland Topsite (DXL-dixieland.1999.02.22.nfo),” February 22, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
96  DZ, “Danger Zone Topsite (DZ-danger.zone.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

310

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

USA

Europe

MrQuija,RootDown

The Dragonz 
Lair (DZL)97

Orb, Gmgrp, 
Appgrp, AVA-
LON

EWC, GRC, 
RTN, MCG, 
MNT

PiNNACLE, 
2000AD, TNO, 
HARLEM, 
EviL, EPC, 
RADiANCE, 
OXYGEN, 
PARADOX

SHOCK, 
ECLIPSE, MSN

“100 GB”

East 999 
(E999)98

Echo Base 
(EB)99

Eternal 
Chaos 
(EC)100

The Evil 
Drome 
(ED)101

DOD, TRPS, 
TRG, REFLUX, 
RADIUM

“OC3”
“30Gigz”
“Linux/GLft-
pD”

USA

_AsH_, |Croaker| 
VantMas

Evil Echo 
(EE)102

PHOENiX, 
DiViNE, CRYS-
TAL, PWA

97  DZL, “The Dragonz Lair Topsite (DZL-the.dragonz.lair.1998.02.05.nfo),” 
February 5, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

98  E999, “East 999 Topsite (E999-east.999.1997.05.03.nfo),” May 3, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

99  EB, “Echo Base Topsite (EB-echo.base.1999.03.11.nfo),” March 11, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

100 EC, “Eternal Chaos Topsite (EC-eternal.chaos.1999.05.19.nfo),” May 19, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
101 ED, “The Evil Drome Topsite (ED-evil.drome.1998.07.26.nfo),” July 26, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
102 EE, “Evil Echo Topsite (EE-evil.echo.1999.06.18.nfo),” June 18, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 311

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

The Em-
porium 
(EMP)103

Endurance 
(END)104

Divine, F4CG, 
Century, Legacy

The Endz 
of the Earth 
(EOE)105

PhoeniX, Herit-
age

Essence 
of Earth 
(EOE)106

DiViNE, MFD, 
SOLiTUDE, 
NLRiP, THD, 
PRiVCD, HZD

Edge of San-
ity (EOS)107

2000AD, Esprit, 
DeC, Spawn, 
bEYOND TiME

Escape Real-
ity (ER)108

HRS, RTN, 
The Reviewers 
Guild, Sea Shell 
Commando, 
Global Alliance 
of Superior 
Pirating

USA

Norway

USA

103 EMP, “The Emporium Topsite (EMP-the.emporium.1997.05.28.nfo),” May 
28, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
104 END, “Endurance Topsite (END-endurance.1998.03.01.nfo),” March 1, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
105 EOE, “The Ends of the Earth Topsite (EOE-endz.of.the.earth.1997.09.19.

nfo),” September 19, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

106 EOE, “Essence of Earth Topsite (EOE-essence.of.earth.2000.09.26.nfo),” 
September 26, 2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

107 EOS, “Edge of Sanity Topsite (EOS-edge.of.sanity.1997.11.01.nfo),” 

November 1, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

108 ER, “Escape Reality Topsite (ER-escape.reality.1997.08.25.nfo),” August 25, 

1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

312

appendix

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Etirnity 
(ET)109

Evasion 
(EVN)110

DEVOTiON, 
MORTALITY

ultim8

Foundation 
Two (F2)111

REBELS, DE-
VOTiON

“T-3”
“34 gig”

Europe

FuJY, Exodus

The Fat Babe 
Two (FB2)112

Coalition97, 
RTP

“10Gig”
“10MBPS”

Flashback 
(FB)113

THUNDER 
COURIER, SI-
LENT CHAOS, 
LEGENDARY

Fatal Error 
(FE)114

OVERKiLL, 
MORTALiTY

Fire Fox 
(FF)115

DEVOTiON, 
PFT, COR-
PORATION, 
CLASS

Bouncer operator 
(Richard Berry) 
busted in Operation 
Buccaneer

Europe

Flash (F)116 LND, LNDiSO, 
TNO

“60+ Giga-
bytes”

SelfHi5, Hodd, Spin, 
Jono, Cedric

109 ET, “Etirnity Topsite (ET-etirnity.1996.08.10.nfo),” August 10, 1996, 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

110 EVN, “Evasion Topsite (EVN-evasion.1998.10.26.nfo),” October 26, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

111  F2, “Foundation Two Topsite (F2-foundation.two.1997.04.26.nfo),” April 
26, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
112  FB2, “The Fat Babe Two Topsite (FB2-the.fat.babe.two.1997.07.12.nfo),” July 
12, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
113  FB, “Flashback Topsite (FB-flashbak.1998.08.25.nfo),” August 25, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

114 FE, “Fatal Error Topsite (FE-fatal.error.1997.03.02.nfo),” March 2, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

115  FF, “Fire Fox Topsite (FF-fire.fox.1999.06.28.nfo),” June 28, 1999, DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

116 F, “Flash Topsite (F-flash.1999.04.18.nfo),” April 18, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.

scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 313

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

“1gbit”
“3tb”

FalseHood 
(FH)117

RAZOR 1911, 
RiSC, GRS

Foo.Keen 
(FK)119

Frag Land 
(FL)121

Flt, kal, ech, tcs, 
mnc, vnm, flix, 
trfc, obus, jgt, 
shk, twc, adx, 
harem120

Weapon, SPRiT, 
MiRACLE, 
PGC, TBS, 
KAC, UCF

Fungus Land 
(FL)122

MFD, DK, ATN “T3”

“22GB”

Fortress of 
Solitude 
(FOS)123

RiSC, Drink or 
Die, RAZOR 
1911, UCF, BLH, 
TRG

Floating 
Point (FP)124

Swat, Motiv8, 
DsC, FcN, 
GDW

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Gollie, Morbid118

Europe

USA

Europe

BiG_PeRM, Argo-
nautz

117  FH, “FalseHood Topsite (FH-false.hood.1998.08.27.nfo),” August 27, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

118  FH, “FalseHood Topsite (FH-false.hood.1998.02.26.nfo),” February 26, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
119 FK, “Foo.Keen Topsite (FK-foo.keen.XXXX.XX.01.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

120 FK, “Foo.Keen Topsite (FK-foo.keen.1999.09.07.nfo),” September 7, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
121  FL, “Frag Land Topsite (FL-frag.land.1998.05.15.nfo),” May 15, 1998, 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

122 FL, “Fungus Land Topsite (FL-fungus.land.1998.08.12.nfo),” August 12, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
123 FOS, “Fortress of Solitude Topsite (FOS-fortress.of.solitude.1998.12.23.

nfo),” December 23, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

124 FP, “Floating Point Topsite (FP-floating.point.1997.06.08.nfo),” June 8, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

314

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

Cracker

Europe

Europe

USA129

Fire Site 
(FS)125

Fuckin 
Stoned 
(FS)126

Fusion 
(FSN)127

Class, titan, ucf, 
mdf, devotion, 
harvest, oxygen, 
pentium force 
team

OVeRDRiVe, 
RTP, Rta, IM-
PaCT

“17 GiGS”
“DuaL T1’s”

AVN, CERTISO, 
RTN, DARK-
MOOR, FATAL, 
ROOTGEMS, 
HI-JACK, ME-
RIDIAN

Fucked Up 
Beyond All 
Recognition 
(FUBAR)128

General Fail-
ure (GF)130

OVERKiLL

“DualT1”
“6 GiGS”
“Plus 5 ON-
LiNE Cdz”
“LiNUX”
“XFTPD 
pimped”

125 FS, “Fire Site Topsite (FS-fire.site.2000.09.14.nfo),” September 14, 2000, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

126 FS, “Fuckin Stoned Topsite (FS-fuckin.stoned.1997.10.30.nfo),” October 30, 

1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
127 FSN, “Fusion Topsite (FSN-fusion.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

128 FUBAR, “Fucked Up Beyond All Recognition Topsite (FUBAR-fucked.
up.beyond.all.recognition.1997.01.20.nfo),” January 20, 1997, DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

129 TDA, “The Digital Afterlife Topsite Ring (TDA-the.digital.

afterlife.1997.01.20.nfo).”

130 GF, “General Failure Topsite (GF-general.failure.1997.01.04.nfo),” January 
4, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 315

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Guru 
Heaven 
(GH)131

Guru 
Meditation 
(GM)132

RPR, DEV, 
PNC, M8, RTS, 
OB

MiRAGE, DOD, 
AMNESiA

Genesis 
(GNS)133

MnM, EtP, 
QuoruM

“10 Machines 
Running 
RedHat Linux 
v5.2”
“190 GigS”
“250 kbps Ca-
ble Modem Site 
/ In & Out!”
“GLFTPD”

BadThrax, ZipPer2

Green Skull 
(GS)134

Busted, Rare

Hemispheres 
Two (H2)135

Class, Dimen-
sion, Pentium 
Force Team, 
RiscISO, PiR8s 
Gone Crazy

“This site is 
powered by 
PiMPD”

“T3 Speed”
“26 Gb”136

USA

131  GH, “Guru Heaven Topsite (GH-guru.heaven.1998.05.04.nfo),” May 4, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
132 GM, “Guru Meditation Topsite (GM-guru.meditation.1997.03.07.nfo),” 
March 7, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

133  GNS, “Genesis Topsite (GNS-genesis.1999.07.05.nfo),” July 5, 1999, 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

134 GS, “Green Skull Topsite (GS-green.skull.1997.05.25.nfo),” May 25, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

135  H2, “Hemispheres Two Topsite (H2-hemispheres.two.1998.07.28.nfo),” July 
28, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
136 H2, “Hemispheres Two Topsite (H2-hemispheres.two.1998.05.27.nfo),” May 
27, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

316

appendix

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Highway 2 
Hell (H2H)137

FALLEN, 
PROPHECY, 
MUTH, RiSC, 
FCN, TFT, 
DVNiSO, 
TFTiSO

Europe

Holocron 
(HCN)138

EViL, ATC

“T3”
“20GB”

MerCurion, Slick, 
Ryche

Hades (H)139 PENTiUM 

Europe

HADES 
FTPD140

FORCE TEAM, 
RiSE, GCRACK, 
THE REVIEW-
ER’S GUiLD, 
DiMENSiON, 
CLASS

Hard Floor 
(HF)141

ORIGIN, 
DRINK OR DIE

Hell Fire 
(HF)142

The Happy 
Hippo 
(HH)143

MOTiV8

ECG, captiveX, 
HI-JACK

“T3”
“12GiGS”

137 H2H, “Highway 2 Hell Topsite (H2H-highway.2.hell.2000.08.27.nfo),” 

August 27, 2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

138 HCN, “Holocron Topsite (HCN-holocron.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

139 H, “Hades Topsite (HDS-hades.1998.06.12.nfo),” June 12, 1998, DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

140 lester, “Which Ftpd Is Right for You?”
141 HF, “Hard Floor Topsite (HF-hard.floor.1999.09.20.nfo),” September 20, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

142 HF, “Hell Fire Topsite (HF-hell.fire.1997.05.16.nfo),” May 16, 1997, 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

143 HH, “The Happy Hippo Topsite (HH-the.happy.hippo.1998.10.25.nfo),” 
October 25, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

 317

warez

Sitename

Hades 
on Earth 
(HOE)144

Hall of 
Illusions 
(HOL)145

House 
of Music 
(HOM)146

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

DiMENSiON, 
CLASS, RiSE, 
PiNNACLE, 
DARKSTAR

RiSC, RAZOR 
1911, X-FORCE, 
BliZZARD, 
RADiUM, Dsi, 
LAXiTY

CORE, TMG, 
DiSTINCT, 
INTENSION, 
CNC, DWP, 
EVIL, OxYGeN, 
ODDITY, 
DAMN, BLH, 
MIB, COREP-
DA, POEPDA, 
UCFPDA

Europe

Hall of 
Warez 
(HOW)147

REFLUX, OUT-
BREAK, GEN-
X, MOTIV8

Hard Wired 
(HW)148

FTL, OVK, 
THD, OBT, 
AXD

“T3”149

Europe

144 HOE, “Hades on Earth Topsite (HOE-hades.on.earth.1999.01.20.nfo),” 
January 20, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

145 HOL, “Hall of Illusions Topsite (HOL-hall.of.illusions.1999.10.28.nfo),” 
October 28, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

146 HOM, “House of Music Topsite (HOM-house.of.music.2000.10.05.nfo),” 
October 5, 2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

147 HOW, “Hall of Warez Topsite (HOW-hall.of.warez.1997.05.24.nfo),” May 
24, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
148 HW, “Hard Wired Topsite (HW-hard.wired.1998.08.27.nfo),” August 27, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
149 HW, “Hard Wired Topsite (HW-hard.wired.1997.03.27.nfo),” March 27, 
1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

318

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

Identity Cri-
sis (IC)150

The 
Imperium 
(IMP)151

Infinity 
(INF)153

SiEGE, Class, 
DEVOTiON, 
RADiUM, 
CORE, RAZOR

AoD, VIGI-
LANCE, WAR-
RIOR, FATAL, 
GOH ’99

INFLiCTiON, 
LEGACY, RiSE, 
SEA SHELL 
COMMANDO, 
TRPS

Internet Pro-
tocol (IP)154

LG, DW, DPN, 
WAR

The Isle 
(ISLE)155

MNT, NvC, 
fCC, DSC, INJ, 
PGC, RNS, 
CDA, BDC, SST

“10GIG”
“CABLE”152

GOD-EMPEROR

USA

CnC, Cali, Hando

[Trader]

150 IC, “Identity Crisis Topsite (IC-identity.crisis.1999.03.31.nfo),” March 31, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
151  IMP, “The Imperium Topsite (IMP-imperium.1998.07.19.nfo),” July 19, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
152 IMP, “The Imperium Topsite (IMP-imperium.XXXX.XX.01.nfo),” n.d., 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
153  INF, “Infinity Topsite (INF-infinity.1998.04.10.nfo),” April 10, 1998, 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

154 IP, “Internet Protocol Topsite (IP-internet.protocol.1999.10.05.nfo),” 

October 5, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

155  ISLE, “The Isle Topsite (ISLE-the.isle.1997.06.10.nfo),” June 10, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 319

warez

Sitename

Insan-
ity Storm 
(IST)156

Intoxicated 
(IX)158

The Jungle 
(JNG)159

K2 (K2)161

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

“West 
US”157

“EQLFTPD”

“Dual T-1”
“8GB”

Manik Depressive, 
Druggy, Dizzy160

DARKSiDE, 
MANiFEST 
DESTiNY, 
TOL, KYLiN, 
REVOLUTiON, 
SKELETON

THE COUN-
CiL, GERMAN 
WAREZ ALLi-
ANCE

RADiUM, 
REBELS, WLW, 
WTA

RAZOR 1911, 
DRINK OR 
DIE, ABSOLUT

Kane (K)162 ORiON, 

Europe

ANGELS ON 
DRUGS, LEG-
ENDS NEVER 
DIE

156 IST, “Insanity Storm Topsite (ISTORM-insanity.storm.1998.09.19.nfo),” 

September 19, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

157 IST, “Insanity Storm Topsite (ISTORM-insanity.storm.1998.08.13.nfo),” 
August 13, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

158 IX, “Intoxicated Topsite (IX-intoxicated.1999.12.26.nfo),” December 26, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
159 JNG, “The Jungle Topsite (JNG-the.jungle.1998.08.18.nfo),” August 18, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
160 JNG, “The Jungle Topsite (JNG-the.jungle.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

161 K2, “K2 Topsite (K2-k2.1998.03.21.nfo),” March 21, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.

scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

162 K, “Kane Topsite (K-kane.XXXX.XX.01.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.

nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

320

appendix

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Kalles Kaviar 
(KK)163

ESPRiT, PHASE

Krad 
(KRAD)164

The Krib 
(KRIB)165

Krynn 
(KRYNN)166

Kashmir 
(KSH)167

ENDURANCE

“T1”
“50 GB”

Swat, FCN, 
Motiv8, LGD, 
Trps

“LINUX POW-
ERED”

Europe TheParain

Razor 1911, 
United Cracking 
Force, Legends 
Never Die

Europe

Kinetics 
(KTS)168

Adrenalin, Ad-
diction, TDA, 
Scandal

“4 Gigs”
“Ethernet”
“WarFTP”

Lunatic Asy-
lum (LA)169

Lost in Space 
(LIS)170

Orbital

163 KK, “Kalles Kaviar Topsite (KK-kalles.kaviar.1999.09.15.nfo),” September 
15, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
164 KRAD, “KRAD Topsite (KRAD-krad.1997.06.29.nfo),” September 15, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

165 KRIB, “The Krib Topsite (KRIB-the.krib.1997.07.30.nfo),” July 30, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

166 KRYNN, “Krynn Topsite (KRYNN-krynn.1997.11.25.nfo),” November 25, 
1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

167 KSH, “Kashmir Topsite (KSH-kashmir.1997.02.22.nfo),” February 22, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

168 KTS, “Kinetics Topsite (KTS-kinetics.1997.01.15.nfo),” January 15, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

169 LA, “Lunatic Asylum Topsite (LA-lunatic.asylum.1995.04.21.nfo),” April 21, 

1995, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
170 LIS, “Lost in Space Topsite (LIS-lost.in.space.1997.08.13.nfo),” August 13, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 321

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Low Lands 
(LL)171

MIB, dF, AMR, 
FFo

Lost Shrine 
(LS)172

DMS, DNG, 
PRM

Europe

“Powered by 
Er33tD v 2.0”
“T3 Speed”
“32 GB”

The Last 
Stand (LS)173

Less Than 
Zero (LTZ)174

iNSOMNiA, 
PNC

USA

The Lost 
World 
(LW)175

Linux 
Unleashed 
(LXL)176

Lynx 
(LYNX)177

THUNDER

iNTUTiLS, digi-
tal.FACTORY, 
Digital District 
Couriers (ISO)

PREMIERE

Presumed 
Linux

USA

171  LL, “Low Lands Topsite (LL-low.lands.1999.09.08.nfo),” September 8, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

172 LS, “Lost Shrine Topsite (LS-lost.shrine.1998.05.28.nfo),” May 28, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

173 LS, “The Last Stand Topsite (LS-the.last.stand.1998.01.22.nfo),” January 22, 

1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
174 LTZ, “Less Than Zero Topsite (LTZ-less.than.zero.1997.11.02.nfo),” 

November 2, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

175 LW, “The Lost World Topsite (LW-the.lost.world.1997.10.25.nfo),” October 
25, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
176 LXL, “Linux Unleashed Topsite (LXL-linux.unleashed.1999.06.29.nfo),” 
June 29, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

177 LYNX, “Lynx Topsite (LYNX-lynx.1997.10.08.nfo),” October 8, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

322

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

TRPS, TiT-
AINiUM, VLH

USA

appendix

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

WarezWulf, BoNz0, 
Swan, |Napa1m|, 
Trillion

Mutu-
ally Assured 
Destruction 
(MAD)178

Menzober-
ranzan 
(MBZ)179

Murder 
Death Kill 
(MDK)182

Mercure 
(MERC)183

DEVOTiON, 
RAZOR 1911, 
DOD, iSOBE-
LiX, PHEN-X, 
TEST

FALLEN

France180 Elves181

“155 mbit”
“13gb”

Europe

France

PCFiL184

BS2000, CiFE, 
DOD, Esprit, 
LGD, TEST, 
TRG, UCF, 
KALiSTO, NBD, 
WackyISO, 
WeaPoN

178 MAD, “Mutually Assured Destruction Topsite (MAD-mutually.assured.

destruction.1999.01.29.nfo),” January 29, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

179 MBZ, “Menzoberranzan Topsite (MBZ-menzoberranzan.1999.02.12.nfo),” 
February 12, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

180 MBZ, “Menzoberranzan Topsite (MBZ-menzoberranzan.1999.01.03.nfo),” 
January 3, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

181  MBZ, “Menzoberranzan Topsite (MBZ-menzoberranzan.XXXX.XX.00.
nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
182 MDK, “Murder Death Kill Topsite (MDK-murder.death.kill.XXXX.XX.00.
nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
183 MERC, “Mercure Topsite (MERC-mercure.1999.02.21.nfo),” February 21, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
184 MERC, “Mercure Topsite (MERC-mercure.1998.01.16.nfo),” January 16, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 323

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

“100mbit”

Europe

Mag-
netic Fields 
(MF)185

AMNESiA, 
DYNASTY, 
GLOBAL, 
REBELS, 
X-FORCE, 
2000AD, 
MANiFEST, 
COUNCiL, 
XCRYPT

Manifest 
(MFT)186

DriNK OR DiE, 
APOCALYPSE

LAXiTY, MFD, 
CLASS, DOD, 
EPTiSO, DEVi-
ANCE, TFTiSO, 
VCD-EUROPE

Midgaard 
(MG)187

Madhaus 
(MH)188

Made in 
Heaven 
(MIH)189

Monkey Is-
land (MI)190

USA

Europe

HERITAGE

“35 GIGS”

Mad|Man

“52 GIGS”
“DUAL T1”

BLACK 
SQUADRON, 
FUSION, 
SKILL666, 
LUTIN

185 MF, “Magnetic Fields Topsite (MF-magnetic.fields.2000.06.05.nfo),” June 
5, 2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
186 MFT, “Manifest Topsite (MFT-manifest.1997.10.21.nfo),” October 21, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

187 MG, “Midgaard Topsite (MG-midgaard.2000.08.22.nfo),” August 22, 2000, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

188 MH, “Madhaus Topsite (MH-madhaus.1997.09.22.nfo),” September 22, 
1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
189 MIH, “Made in Heaven Topsite (MIH-made.in.heaven.1999.05.21.nfo),” 
May 21, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

190 MI, “Monkey Island Topsite (MI-monkey.island.1998.02.06.nfo),” February 

6, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

324

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

Major 
Malfunction 
(MM)191

PWA, RTS, 
DEMON, DSI

Mental 
Meltdown 
(MM)192

Midnight 
Sun (MNS)193

“10MBits”
“18 GiGz of 
Space”

DriNK OR DiE, 
THE FLAME 
ARROWS, 
REBELS, GLoW, 
DiViNE

Europe

Norway

DJ_Rican

“EQLFTPD” United 

Kingdom

LG, SWP, RFK, 
SiF, VLN, DL

EQUALiTY, 
RAZOR 1911, 
TFT, CORE

Mount 
Olympus 
(MO)194

Mos Eisley 
(MOS)195

Mirage 
(MRG)196

Mile Stone 
(MS)197

TFT, HYBRiD, 
SHOCK

Europe

191 MM, “Major Malfunction Topsite (MM-major.malfunction.1999.07.29.

nfo),” July 29, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

192 MM, “Mental Meltdown Topsite (MM-mental.meltdown.1997.04.26.nfo),” 
April 26, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

193 MNS, “Midnight Sun Topsite (MNS-midnight.sun.1999.01.23.nfo),” 

January 23, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

194 MO, “Mount Olympus Topsite (MO-mount.olympus.1998.10.23.nfo),” 

October 23, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

195 MOS, “Mos Eisley Topsite (MOS-mos.eisley.1998.03.25.nfo),” March 25, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
196 MRG, “Mirage Topsite (MRG-mirage.1997.08.03.nfo),” August 3, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

197 MS, “Mile Stone Topsite (MS-mile.stone.1997.07.04.nfo),” July 4, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 325

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Moonsine 
Vision 
(MSV)198

DEVOTiON, 
BliZZARD, 
PREMiERE

Mist World 
(MW)199

Maximum 
Power 
(MP)200

Niobium 
(NBM)201

RAZOR, RiSE, 
Dongle, MiL-
LENNiUM

MiLLENNiUM

COUNCiL, 
ODD-
ITY, CLASS, 
SHOCK, 
BACKLASH, 
BLiZZARD, 
OXYGEN

Nocturne 
(NCT)202

DNG, MNM, 
RBS, SECT

“THE LATEST 
GLFTPD”

fATE

“71 Gigs”

New Evil 
Incarnate 
(NEI)203

dajoint, odz, fjalar, 
fft, sitez

Czar, Billy Bishop, 
Tornado

198 MSV, “Moonshine Vision Topsite (MSV-moonshine.vision.1998.08.26.
nfo),” August 26, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

199 MW, “Mist World Topsite (MW-mist.world.1998.06.04.nfo),” June 4, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

200 

MXP, “Maximum Power Topsite (MXP-maximum.

power.1998.02.06.nfo),” February 6, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

201 NBM, “Niobium Topsite (NBM-niobium.1999.02.14.nfo),” February 14, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
202 NCT, “Nocturne Topsite (NCT-nocturne.1998.12.06.nfo),” December 6, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

203 NEI, “New Evil Incarnate Topsite (NEI-new.evil.incarnate.1997.11.29.nfo),” 
November 29, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

326

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

TMG, DAMN,, 
VARiANCE, 
ARSENIC, 
PGC, HTG, 
SHOCK, ITN, 
AOD, COREP-
DA, RBSPDA, 
UCFPDA

OGN, SHOCK, 
PROS, PHS, 
WPN, DSI

FBW, INTISO, 
KLN, SKL, 
AVN, RVL, 
BNW, GOH98, 
SCE, UCL, 
DED, NXS, 
NOVA, HI-
JACK

MOTiV8, SO-
DOM, Hyrid

Near 
Future 2000 
(NF2K)204

Near Future 
(NF)205

Neon Gen-
esis (NGS)207

Nihil 
(NHL)208

Narkos 
(NKS)209

“155Mb”
“100Gb”

Europe

“glftpd”

Europe

“T3”
“36 Go”206

“ADSL”
“27GIGS”

USA

“13 Mbits link”
“Running 
FTP4ALL”

Cxxxxxx, hxxX,
Jxx,
Flxxxx, Sxxxx, 
Bxxxxx, Jxxxxxx

204 NF2K, “Near Future 2000 Topsite (NF2K-near.future.2000.10.12.nfo),” 

October 12, 2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

205 NF, “Near Future Topsite (NF-near.future.1999.11.08.nfo),” November 8, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
206 NF, “Near Future Topsite (NF-near.future.1999.08.26.nfo),” August 26, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

207 NGS, “Neon Genesis Topsite (NGS-neon.genesis.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

208 NHL, “Nihil Topsite (NHL-nihil.1997.03.02.nfo),” March 2, 1997, DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

209 NKS, “Narkos Topsite (NKS-narkos.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 327

warez

Sitename

Nemesis 
(NMS)210

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

PWA, RAZOR, 
TwiLiGHT, 
AMBiTiON, 
TRPS

Nos (NOS)211 SiEGE, ViCE, 
DNG, PARA-
DOX

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

MindFink, Reznor, 
Slamdunk, Sminded, 
Akasha, d-unknown, 
Gal, Garoto, Mgd

United 
Kingdom

Europe

Noptarus 
(NPT)212

Nu-
clear Dust 
(NUD)213

Nexus 
(NXS)215

Origin, Harlem

Canada

“T1 Speed”
“12gb”
“0-days only”

Czech Re-
public214

TFA, SLT, Di-
ViNE, SHOCK, 
HazarD, 
CROSSFiRE, 
TMG

calibreX

“T3”

Zhrodague, utopian

Orbit Five 
(O5)216

NWO, Energy, 
UCF

Omerta 
(OM)217

PHOENiX, 
KNO, FCN, 
TiCiN, RTSiSO

USA

210 NMS, “Nemesis Topsite (NMS-nemesis.1998.09.08.nfo),” September 8, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
211  NOS, “Nos Topsite (NOS-nos.1998.05.17.nfo),” May 17, 1998, DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

212 NPT, “Noptarus Topsite (NPT-noptarus.1999.02.03.nfo),” February 3, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

213 NUD, “Nuclear Dust Topsite (NUD-nuclear.dust.2000.08.22.nfo),” August 
22, 2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
214 NUD, “Nuclear Dust Topsite (NUD-nuclear.dust.XXXX.XX.01.nfo),” n.d., 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

215 NXS, “Nexus Topsite (NXS-nexus.1998.05.07.nfo),” May 7, 1998, DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

216 O5, “Orbit Five Topsite (O5-orbit.five.1997.02.14.nfo),” February 14, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

217 OM, “Omerta Topsite (OM-omerta.1999.12.31.nfo),” December 31, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

328

appendix

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Nite

USA

USA

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Operation 
Mindcrime 
(OM)218

Origin 
(ON)219

Outskirts 
of Nowhere 
(OON)220

iCT, CRC, XPC, 
Tha Mafia, ODV

Energe, Dongle, 
Thunder Cou-
rier

RBSiSO, Mn-
MiSO, CaLiSO, 
DoWNLiNK, 
WLW

Obscure 
Transmis-
sions (OT)221

ZeroHour, 
eXcess, Micro-
sux, eXpose, 
MiRAGE

“T3”
“336GB”

Origin Un-
derground 
(OU)222

“10Mbit”
“8 gig online”223

Real Time 
Pirats, Sea Shell 
Comando, 
Associated 
Software Pirates, 
Naturraly 
Insane Couri-
ers, Explosion, 
Demon

218 OM, “Operation Mindcrime Topsite (OM-operation.mindcrime.1997.12.29.
nfo),” December 29, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

219 ON, “Origin Topsite (ON-origin.1997.12.04.nfo),” December 4, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

220 OON, “Outskirts of Nowhere Topsite (OON-outskirts.

of.nowhere.1998.12.15.nfo),” December 15, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

221 OT, “Obscure Transmissions Topsite (OT-obscure.transmissions.1997.12.07.
nfo),” December 7, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

222 OU, “Origin Underground Topsite (OU-origin.underground.1998.01.13.
nfo),” January 13, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

223 OU, “Origin Underground Topsite (OU-origin.underground.1997.10.25.
nfo),” October 25, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

 329

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Oxide 
(OX)224

Pentium, INjus-
tice, Coalition97

“T?”
“8GiGs”

USA

purning, PCX

“T-3”
“3 Gigs Online”

Rsvp2riP, code_zero, 
toxic2

“10 mBiT”
“18 gB”227

Europe

Pier One Im-
ports (P1)225

RVG, GNX, 
DMN, DEM, 
PCW

Pan-
dora’s Box 
(PBOX)226

HERiTAGE, 
RAZOR 1911, 
dIGITAL.fAC-
TORY, DTN

Point Break 
(PB)228

Pirates’ Cove 
(PC)229

Reflux, Empure, 
Nemesis

“T3”
“34 Gigs”

Plastik 
Dreams 
(PD)230

Playboys 
Dream 
(PD)231

Dangerous, Pre-
miere, Future, 
Pimps!, Insanity

RiSE, REBELS, 
MiSSION

Comwood, Elmo, 
Nightsky

USA

dA bALHEd, Stilgar

Europe

TGC, XLOAD, SIR-
BUBU, ALEX232

224 OX, “Oxide Topsite (OX-oxide.1997.07.15.nfo),” July 15, 1997, DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

225 P1, “Pier One Imports Topsite (P1-pier.one.imports.1996.10.29.nfo),” 

October 29, 1996, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

226 PBOX, “Pandora’s Box Topsite (PBOX-pandoras.box.2000.07.23.nfo),” July 
23, 2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
227 PBOX, “Pandora’s Box Topsite (PBOX-pandoras.box.1999.02.15.nfo),” 

February 15, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

228 PB, “Point Break Topsite (PB-point.break.1998.12.12.nfo),” December 12, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

229 PC, “Pirate’s Cove Topsite (PC-pirates.cove.1997.03.02.nfo),” March 2, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

230 PD, “Plastik Dreams Topsite (PD-plastik.dreams.1996.11.12.nfo),” Novem-
ber 12, 1996, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
231 PD, “Playboys Dreams Topsite (PD-playboys.dream.1999.10.21.nfo),” Octo-
ber 21, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
232 PD, “Playboys Dreams Topsite (PD-playboys.dream.1998.10.25.nfo),” Octo-
ber 25, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

330

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

Psychadelic 
Dreams 
(PD)233

Paradox 
(PDX)234

Project 
Genocide 
(PG)236

Pirates’ 
Hideout 
(PH)238

Paradise 
Lost (PL)239

“T1”
“12+ GB”

Canada

djNghe, Jenlien, 
Subhuman235

MOD, FND, 
DWA, LFLISO, 
XCRYPT, RE-
FLEX

demon, Warp98, 
TNO

“T3”

United 
Kingdom

]morph[, oleole, tur-
rican, ka0s237

Europe

High Soci-
ety, DiSTiNCT, 
Reideen, TSZ, 
Backlash, Di-
vine, Electrocu-
tion, Stream

Future, Inspire

Pirate Lair 
(PL)240

ILT, DWA, dP, 
BIOS

USA

D0sE

233 PD, “Psychadelic Dreams Topsite (PD-psychadelic.dreams.1997.09.30.

nfo),” September 30, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

234 PDX, “Paradox Topsite (PDX-paradox.1999.02.26.nfo),” February 26, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

235 PDX, “Paradox Topsite (PDX-paradox.1999.01.20.nfo),” January 20, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

236 PG, “Project Genocide Topsite (PG-project.genocide.1998.08.21.nfo),” Au-
gust 21, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
237 PG, “Project Genocide Topsite (PG-project.genocide.1998.07.07.nfo),” July 
7, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
238 PH, “Pirates’ Hideout Topsite (PH-pirates.hideout.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” 
n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

239 PL, “Paradise Lost Topsite (PL-paradise.lost.1997.11.25.nfo),” November 25, 

1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
240 PL, “Pirate Lair Topsite (PL-pirate.lair.1999.08.03.nfo),” August 3, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 331

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Maurauder, 
Cybrdeath, Novo, 
[NtDude], Factory, 
CptVorpal, Diablo243

Piper, Fourth, Coba, 
NINE

Primary 
Link (PL)241

RAPiER, SO-
DOM, CLASS

Prime Mover 
(PM)242

BLiZZARD, 
SiEGE, RefluX, 
RVL

Pelos Portal 
(PP)244

ESPRIT, 
EXPLOSION, 
INFECTED

Piper’s Pit 
(PP)245

CIFE, AODiSO, 
MAD, Silentch-
aos, Integrity

“Blazing Fast 
Cable Modem”
“Lots of Gigs 
Online”

Pussy Power 
(PP)246

Phoenix Ris-
ing (PR)247

Carnage, PARA-
DOX, CiFE, 
RTSiSO, LND, 
Warp, ViCE, 
BMI

Europe

USA

Europe

United 
Kingdom

241 PL, “Primary Link Topsite (PL-primary.link.1997.03.02.nfo),” March 2, 
1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

242 PM, “Prime Mover Topsite (PM-prime.mover.1998.08.13.nfo),” August 13, 

1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
243 PM, “Prime Mover Topsite (PM-prime.mover.1998.05.10.nfo),” May 10, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

244 PP, “Pelos Portal Topsite (PP-pelos.portal.1998.04.22.nfo),” April 22, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

245 PP, “Piper’s Pit Topsite (PP-pipers.pit.1999.10.21.nfo),” October 21, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

246 PP, “Pussy Power Topsite (PP-pussy.power.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

247 PR, “Phoenix Rising Topsite (PR-phoenix.rising.1999.10.12.nfo),” October 
12, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

332

appendix

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Parasite 
(PS)248

PREMiERE, 
GCRACK, 
DiViNE, MiRA-
CLE

Europe

Progressive 
(PS)249

Possible Re-
ality (PR)250

ITN, BLH, MiV, 
PDX, OMG, 
WLWMP3, 
MOD, CHR, 
NBD, NmE, 
STAR, reb00t, 
CNCISO, 
GWL, VSN, 
GME2000, 
VIRA

Prosperity 
(PST)251

THUNDER, 
PINNACLE, 
BLIZZARD

Pzykotik 
Thoughts 
(PT)252

248 PS, “Parasite Topsite (PS-parasite.1998.03.11.nfo),” March 11, 1998, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

249 PS, “Progressive Topsite (PS-progressive.1997.03.11.nfo),” March 11, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

250 PSR, “Possible Reality Topsite (PSR-possible.reality.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” 
n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
251 PST, “Prosperity Topsite (PST-prosperity.1999.07.25.nfo),” July 25, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

252 PT, “Pzykotik Thoughts Topsite (PT-pzykotik.thoughts.1997.05.19.nfo),” 

May 19, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 333

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Pre Whore 
House 
(PWH)253

Quadcon 
(QC)254

Quantum 
Reality 
(QR)255

Restricted 
Area (RA)256

Rebellion 
Authority 
(RAY)257

Europe

NANGELS ON 
DRUGS, Di-
ViNE, DRiNK 
OR DiE, PARA-
DOX, DiGiTAL 
FACTORY, 
HERiTAGE, 
PHROZEN 
CREW, iNTEN-
SiON, ZONE

USA

RiSCiSO, 
Ranaissance, 
SHOCK, CoN-
CePT, RNG, 
GPF

“2 Separate T1 
Systems”
“43gb Main/
ISO”
“7gb Release”

RiSE, CELEBRE

Katman, GaL, Ban-
DiDo, Koyote, Poo, 
CorrupT

AMBiSO, 
CERTiSO, iSO-
BELiX, DTD, 
MNMiSO, 
VCDEUROPE

ESPRiT, BLiZ-
ZARD, PFT

“3xT3”
“54GIGS”

Czech 
Republic

Suvivant, KloWn__, 
Toaster, Bill, KIDSS-
HoW, Mackaque

Europe

253 PWH, “Pre Whore House Topsite (PWH-pre.whore.house.2000.09.01.

nfo),” September 1, 2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

254 QC, “QuadCon Topsite (QC-quadcon.1998.02.09.nfo),” February 9, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

255 QR, “Quantum Reality Topsite (QR-quantum.reality.1998.05.23.nfo),” May 
23, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
256 RA, “Restricted Area Topsite (RA-restricted.area.1999.06.13.nfo),” June 13, 

1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
257 RAY, “Rebellion Authority Topsite (RAY-rebellion.authority.1999.03.18.
nfo),” March 18, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

334

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

The Rebel-
lion (RBL)258

Rand0m 
Cha0s 
(RC)259

O13, Motiv8, 
ORC, Corrup-
tion, Legendary, 
PCW

The Relic 
(RELIC)260

X-FORCE, IL-
LICIT

Reality Flux 
(RFLUX)261

Phrozen Crew, 
Premiere

“linux pow-
ered”
“t1”262

Ratz Hole 
(RH)263

Realms 
of Chaos 
(ROC)266

Razor 1911, 
Drink Or Die, 
Enterprise, We 
Love Warez, 
MOTiV8, TrPS

EQUAL-
iTY, CORE, 
X-FoRCE, Dsi, 
DiViNE, FCN

“powered by 
EQLFTPD”

USA

USA

Canada

USA

DaliX, daLoner, 
Stinger, mandrake, 
mrsaint

Hackrat (Mike 
Nguyen)264
shark265

258 RBL, “The Rebellion Topsite (RBL-the.rebellion.1997.02.19.nfo),” February 
19, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
259 RC, “Rand0m Cha0s Topsite (RC-random.chaos.1997.09.05.nfo),” Septem-
ber 5, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
260 RELIC, “The Relic Topsite (RELIC-the.relic.1997.12.29.nfo),” December 29, 

1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

261 RFLUX, “Reality Flux Topsite (RFLUX-reality.flux.1998.07.03.nfo),” July 3, 

1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

262 RFLUX, “Reality Flux Topsite (RFLUX-reality.flux.1998.03.03.nfo),” March 
3, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
263 RH, “Ratz Hole Topsite (RH-ratzhole.1999.08.14.nfo),” August 14, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

264 Paul Craig, Software Piracy Exposed (Rockland: Syngress, 2005), 197.
265 “Operation Buccaneer (operation_buccaneer.txt),” 2000, mp3scene.info.
266 ROC, “Realms of Chaos Topsite (ROC-realms.of.chaos.1998.11.23.nfo),” 

November 23, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

 335

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Relentless 
Pipeline 
(RP)267

PROPHECY, 
SHOCK

RZ Soft 
(RZ)268

Satan’s 
Dome 
(SD)269

ESPRiT, MAS-
SiVE, WAR-
RiOR, RADiUM

“rFtpD”
“15GiGz”
“T3”270

“10Mbit ConX-
tion”
“15 Gigs On-
line”
“glFtpD”

“10MB/s rFtpd”
“21GB Online”

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

USA

_Hype_

GL

D_S, Blas, nice

Sanitarium 
(SANI)271

SSC, MAD, 
Atomic-X

Secured 
Area (SA)273

OVK, AOD

“31.2 GiGs”

USA272

Cdeth, GaL, Syn, 
CnC, Slashwolf

Europe

JFM

267 RP, “Relentless Pipeline Topsite (RP-relentless.pipeline.1998.10.02.nfo),” 
October 2, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

268 RZ, “RZ Soft Topsite (RZ-rzsoft.1997.12.22.nfo),” December 22, 1997, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

269 SAD, “Satan’s Dome Topsite (SAD-satans.dome.1998.08.30.nfo),” August 
30, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
270 SAD, “Satan’s Dome Topsite (SAD-satans.dome.1998.07.29.nfo),” July 29, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

271 SANI, “Sanitarium Topsite (SANI-sanitarium.1998.01.08.nfo),” January 8, 

1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
272 SANI, “Sanitarium Topsite (SANI-sanitarium.1997.06.13.nfo),” June 13, 
1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

273 SA, “Secured Area Topsite (SA-secured.area.1997.02.22.nfo),” February 22, 

1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

336

appendix

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

San 
Bruno Club 
(SBC)274

“50+ GigS”
“Flaming DS-3”

PROPH-
ECY, X-FORCE, 
CORPORA-
TION, LAXiTY, 
ASiANPOWER

USA275

SBC, dlThunder, 
warezone276

B0LET0,  DVST8,  
SANDOKAN, STRA-
CAZZ

The Sando-
kan’s Dome 
(SDK)277

AValoN, ORB, 
Zer0HouR, 
RoCkFoRcE, 
WTA, EsPRiT

“LiNuX 2.0.32”
“P200”
“64MB” [as-
sumed RAM]
“rFtpD 
v2.21B7”
“10 Gigz”
“10 Mbps”

Solid 
Disruption 
(SD)278

LEGACY, 
WEAPON, 
F4CG

Europe

274 SBC, “San Bruno Club Topsite (SBC-san.bruno.club.2000.02.26.nfo),” 

February 26, 2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

275 SBC, “San Bruno Club Topsite (SBC-san.bruno.club.1999.12.27.nfo),” 

December 27, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

276 There is some confusion in the archive, but I believe that San Bruno Club 
was previously known only as San Bruno, hence the merge here of NFOs 
for sites with different abbreviations. SB, “San Bruno Topsite (SB-san.
bruno.1998.07.01.nfo),” July 1, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

277 SDK, “The Sandokan’s Dome Topsite (SDK-the.sandokans.

dome.1998.02.25.nfo),” February 25, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.col-
lection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

278 SD, “Solid Disruption Topsite (SD-solid.disruption.1998.06.27.nfo),” June 
27, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 337

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Hypocrisy, The_DoN, 
Culture

Site rules:

[S]ite [R]ules

[o1]  Linfxp/Pftp/
Scripting are banned
[o2]  No Foreign/ISO 
Uploads
[o3]  No Bookware/
Freeware/Shareware
[o4]  Beta’s/Win-
builds okay
[o5]  Alpha’s are not 
allowed280

Surface De-
fect (SD)279

WARRIOR, 
ECG, ACE, 
CTW, Nexus

“T3”
“18 gigs”

Savage Exile 
(SE)281

ILLICIT, FPS, 
OP CRITICAL 
ILLUSION

“TOO MUCH 
SPACE”
“FAST SITE”

Sonic Em-
pire (SE)282

ZYLON, 
ESTEEM, AS-
SAULT, PGC

Silicon 
Exchange 
(SEX)283

GCRACK, 
SCuM, TLT, 
RTN

279 SD, “Surface Defect Topsite (SD-surface.defect.1998.09.25.nfo),” September 
25, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
280 SD, “Surface Defect Topsite (SD-surface.defect.1998.06.06.nfo),” June 6, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
281 SE, “Savage Exile Topsite (SE-savage.exile.1997.10.25.nfo),” October 25, 
1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
282 SE, “Sonic Empire Topsite (SE-sonic.empire.1998.01.03.nfo),” January 3, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
283 SEX, “Silicon Exchange Topsite (SEX-silicon.exchange.1999.05.24.nfo),” 
May 24, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

338

appendix

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Mr Burnz, maloo, 
stuph

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Springfield 
(SF)284

Kryptic, Herit-
age, Karma, 
GdW

Shadow Gate 
(SG)285

CertISO, High 
Voltage, Mille-
nium, PHXiSO, 
RobinHood, 
Warez4Ever

Shike 
(SHK)286

The Cellar 
(SLR)287

KAC, F4CG, 
Warpon, PWA, 
MiLLENiUM, 
ORiGiN

“Blazing T3”
“45 GBs”

USA

Sand Land 
(SL)289

PWA, CLASS, 
TFT, RC

Europe

Socrates 
(SOC)290

REQUEST TO 
SEND

“13GIGS”
“T3”

T3Mace, Mc

Anthrax, Rus-
kin, MindFink, 
CoRRoS|oN, 
dev, MindFink, 
CoRRoS|oN, dARK-
sUN, Red_Obelisk, 
Akasha, Red_Ob-
elisk, FaithMuse, 
Caster288

Chinese Eyes, NiNJA, 
Count Zero, Diz-
torted, Ordnance

284 SF, “Springfield Topsite (SF-springfield.1997.04.06.nfo),” April 6, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

285 SG, “Shadow Gate Topsite (SG-shadow.gate.1999.04.21.nfo),” April 21, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

286 SHK, “Shike Topsite (SHK-shike.1997.05.28.nfo),” May 28, 1997, DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

287 SLR, “The Cellar Topsite (SLR-the.cellar.1998.11.08.nfo),” November 8, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
288 SLR, “The Cellar Topsite (SLR-the.cellar.1998.09.07.nfo),” September 7, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
289 SL, “Sand Land Topsite (SL-sand.land.1997.10.29.nfo),” October 29, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

290 SOC, “Socrates Topsite (SOC-socrates.1997.11.12.nfo),” November 12, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 339

warez

Sitename

South of 
Heaven 
(SOH)291

The Spade 
(SPADE)292

Secret Para-
dise (SP)293

Shattered 
Reality 
(SR)294

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Dark Star, Am-
bition Courier

Deviance iSO, 
REBELS, ECG 
iSO, THE 
FLAME AR-
ROWS iSO

“10MBits”
“30 GiGz”

Norway

Warezguy, krumpet

“10mb CoN-
NeCTion”
“18 GiGZ”

hv98, Control 
98, Warez4Ever, 
HUNTERz, 
united warez, 
b198, DWA, 
PrimeNemisis

Silly Sym-
phonies 
(SS)295

MiLLENNiUM, 
Drink or Die, 
DARK SiDE

Stairway 
to Heaven 
(STH)296

CLASS, Pi-
RATES WiTH 
ATTiTUDES

Finland

Europe

cq, br, gi, he, fh297

291 SOH, “South of Heaven Topsite (SOH-south.of.heaven.1998.08.27.nfo),” 
August 27, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

292 SPADE, “The Spade Topsite (SPADE-the.spade.1999.01.23.nfo),” January 
23, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
293 SP, “Secret Paradise Topsite (SP-secret.paradise.1998.08.30.nfo),” August 
30, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
294 SR, “Shattered Reality Topsite (SR-shattered.reality.1998.10.05.nfo),” Octo-
ber 5, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
295 SS, “Silly Symphonies Topsite (SS-silly.symphonies.1998.05.13.nfo),” May 
13, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
296 STH, “Stairway to Heaven Topsite (STH-stairway.to.heaven.1999.08.27.
nfo),” August 27, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

297 STH, “Stairway to Heaven Topsite (STH-stairway.to.heaven.1997.02.16.

nfo),” February 16, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

340

appendix

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Sun (SUN)298ExoduS, TMG

Spice World 
(SW)299

Syn City 
(SYN)300

DF, Harlem, LG

Europe

“T3”
“Cisco4000”
“100MB-TX”
“15GB”301

Razor 1911, 
MiLLENNiUM, 
Drink Or Die, 
XForce, RISC, 
AMN, Rapier, 
DEV, EMP, DIV, 
MNC, Fate

Synapse, Doobie

Storm Zone 
(SZ)302

DWA, Rezent, 
DW, UW, BIOS, 
MIB, PULSAR

“54gb”
“3mbit cable 
modem”

Stormeist, Gramon-
sm SoNiK, Spaten, 
BigLoo, Riptide

Europe

Talinc 
(TAL)303

AMBiSO, AM-
BiTiON, iCOi-
SO, FALLEN, 
PARADiGM, 
PiNNACLE, 
Dsi, SLT

The Ancient 
Ruins 
(TAR)304

DW98, 
UFC2000, TBS, 
NIC, FATE

298 SUN, “Sun Topsite (SUN-sun.1999.11.09.nfo),” November 9, 1999, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

299 SW, “Spice World Topsite (SW-spice.world.1998.06.21.nfo),” June 21, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

300 SYN, “Syn City Topsite (SYN-syncity.1998.08.27.nfo),” August 27, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

301 SYN, “Syn City Topsite (SYN-syncity.1996.11.04.nfo),” November 4, 1996, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

302 SZ, “Storm Zone Topsite (SZ-storm.zone.1999.09.17.nfo),” September 17, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
303 TAL, “Talinc Topsite (TAL-talinc.1999.12.28.nfo),” December 28, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

304 TAR, “The Ancient Ruins Topsite (TAR-the.ancient.ruins.1998.03.25.nfo),” 
March 25, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

 341

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

The Ar-
mageddon 
(TA)305

RBS, ATN, 
DMS, RSR, 
AMB

“T3-SPEED”
“XX-GiGZ”

The Black 
Box (TBB)306

AMBiSO, 
CERTiSO, 
PROPHECY, 
VCDUEUROPE

Survivant, KLoWn__, 
Flying-Toaster, hyd

Tera-Bit-Fit 
(TBF)307

Turbulence 
(TBL)308

The Bot-
tomless Pit 
(TBP)309

AVALON

“8 GiGZ”

USA

THE AVALON MIR-
RORMEN

KIN, DMS, 
ZhR, hV, dWA, 
HT, FND, ODT

Natosoft, SiEGE, 
Warp98

“T3”
“23GIG”

USA

The Boxer 
Rebellion 
(TBR)310

Drink or Die, 
RTS

305 TA, “The Armageddon Topsite (TA-the.armageddon.1998.08.05.nfo),” Au-
gust 5, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
306 TBB, “The Black Box Topsite (TBB-the.black.box.1999.05.27.nfo),” May 27, 

1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
307 TBF, “Tera-Bit-Fit Topsite (TBF-tera.bit.fit.1999.01.15.nfo),” January 15, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
308 TBL, “Turbulence Topsite (TBL-turbulence.1998.08.11.nfo),” August 11, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

309 TBP, “The Bottomless Pit Topsite (TBP-the.bottomless.pit.1998.07.05.nfo),” 
July 5, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

310 TBR, “The Boxer Rebellion Topsite (TBR-the.boxer.rebellion.1998.08.23.
nfo),” August 23, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

342

appendix

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

The Corner 
Deli (TCD)311

Thunder, Pre-
miere, Global 
Crackers

USA

The Center 
(TC)312

Backlash, GWA, 
Council

Germany

Trash City 
(TC)313

SHOCK, 
FRONTiER, 
EXECUIVE, 
iNTENSITY, 
TFA

USA

Chrys, Dev, Gal, 
Rockz, Havok, Cy-
berWar, AcidApple, 
X-Frog, Officedog314

311  TCD, “The Corner Deli Topsite (TCD-the.corner.deli.1998.01.31.nfo),” 
January 31, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

312 TC, “The Center Topsite (TC-the.center.1997.10.24.nfo),” October 24, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

313  TC, “Trash City Topsite (TC-trash.city.1998.03.02.nfo),” March 2, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

314 TC, “Trash City Topsite (TC-trash.city.1998.01.23.nfo),” January 23, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 343

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Crimson, Renfro, 
Doc_X, phoxphyre, 
icu812, M-80, Dead-
chane, Phenomeno, 
Bigjilm, Grinder_, 
Demented, Dav312, 
WildWendy, cyphen, 
Net^king, Statics, 
observer

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

The Digital 
Afterlife 
(TDA)315

Sitering.

USA, Eu-
rope

FUBAR: USA, 
T3

NetherWorld: 
Europe, T1+

Da Crew, USA, 
T3

Kinetics, USA, 
T1

Gothom, USA, 
T1

Abyss, USA, T1

Bomb, 2xT1

Hall of Gnana, 
USA, T1

TGU, USA, T3

The Drag-
ons Den 
(TDD)316

Millennium 
Courier, Eclipse 
Interactive

USA

Daphantm, Seven, 
Rare²317

315  TDA, “The Digital Afterlife Topsite Ring (TDA-the.digital.after-

life.1997.01.20.nfo).”

316 TDD, “The Dragons Den Topsite (TDD-the.dragons.den.1997.07.17.nfo),” 
July 17, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
317 TDD, “The Dragons Den Topsite (TDD-the.dragons.den.1997.07.15.nfo),” 
July 15, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

344

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

The Dawg 
House 
(TDH)318

The Digital 
Harm 
(TDH)319

PHC, Dynamic, 
DST, HTG, EPI, 
Motiv8, FCC, 
FCN, TDA, 
Rapid

SSC, LIQUID, 
SHOCK, 
ADDIC-
TION, NZPD, 
THIEVES, 
RISE, UCU

The Desert 
Inn (TDI)320

LNDiSO, Rock-
Force, FBW

The Dead 
Land 
(TDL)321

R.T.S., STON-
HENGE, 
DIVINE, 
SYNICLE

The Dia-
mond Mind 
(TDM)322

SHOCK, AM-
NESIA, RAZOR

USA

SKYDEMON, SHMO

neotericE

USA

USA

“granolaFTP”

MikDiamon, Slice-

318 TDH, “The Dawg House Topsite (TDH-the.dawg.house.1997.05.25.nfo),” 

May 25, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
319 TDH, “The Digital Harm Topsite (TDH-the.digital.harm.1997.10.25.nfo),” 
October 25, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

320 TDI, “The Desert Inn Topsite (TDI-the.desert.inn.1999.07.21.nfo),” July 21, 

1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

321 TDL, “The Dead Land Topsite (TDL-the.dead.lands.1998.05.25.nfo),” May 
25, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
322 TDM, “The Diamond Mine Topsite (TDM-the.diamond.mine.1997.01.10.
nfo),” January 10, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

 345

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

The Dawg 
Pound 
(TDP)323

CWS, FBW, 
Demise, Rock-
Force, StyLe, 
SynicaL, AOD

The Devil’s 
Pit (TDP)325

WaRP, GLoW,  
UCF, DEViOUS, 
TE, Future

“T3”
“34GB”

Location Siteops and Nukers/

USA324

Notes

^DaWg^, hoax, 
doors, explorer, 
himie009, kronder, 
vylent

USA

HSOBIC, ScabZ, ne-
crosis, Xndo, Raskah

The Dark 
Site (TDS)326

RAPiD, GPF, 
Heritage

Canada

The Dome 
(TD)327

PGC

“T3”
“20 Gigabytes”

Canada

The Drop 
Zone 
(TDZ)328

FPS, ILLICIT, 
IMPACT, COAL

“tEEtHREE”

USA

323 TDP, “The Dawg Pound Topsite (TDP-the.dawg.pound.1998.05.02.nfo),” 

May 2, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

324 TDP, “The Dawg Pound Topsite (TDP-the.dawg.pound.XXXX.XX.00.

nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
325 TDP, “The Devil’s Pit Topsite (TDP-the.devils.pit.1999.01.07.nfo),” January 
7, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
326 TDS, “The Dark Site Topsite (TDS-the.dark.site.1997.06.29.nfo),” June 29, 

1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
327 TD, “The Dome Topsite (TD-the.dome.1998.08.31.nfo),” August 31, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

328 TDZ, “The Drop Zone Topsite (TDZ-the.drop.zone.1997.11.03.nfo),” 

November 3, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

346

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

The Third 
Total Eclipse 
(TE3)329

DSC, DF, HiD, 
LiVeEdgE

The Electric 
Circus 
(TEC)330

AXiS, RoK, 
Rebels

The Force Team

Trans Elec-
tronic Light 
(TEL)331

Europe

Gromit, G-Bit, 
Druggy, Liquide

The Temple 
(TEMP)332

CLASS, RELI-
ANCE

USA

329 TE3, “The Third Total Eclipse Topsite (TE3-total.eclipse.three.1999.07.09.
nfo),” July 9, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

330 TEC, “The Electric Circus Topsite (TEC-the.electric.circus.1998.08.27.
nfo),” August 27, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

331  TEL, “Trans Electric Light Topsite (TEL-trans.electronic.light.1997.07.16.
nfo),” July 16, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

332 TEMP, “The Temple Topsite (TEMP-the.temple.1997.09.21.nfo),” 

September 21, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

 347

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

“174 GIG”
“10MBIT”

USA

The Ether 
Net (TEN)333

ADDCTION 
[sic], MYTH, 
TRPS, IPA, 
2000AD, 
ECLIPSE, 
CORE, RBSiSO, 
iNTUTiLS, 
XCRYPT, LAX-
iTY, WLW,

The Enter-
prise (TE)334

INTENSITY, 
EXPLOSiON, 
TRPS

USA

Jacket, ^_TE_^, 
Arsenel, Kang6902, 
Vampire, C6, End-
ymiom, Leslie

Total Eclipse 
(TE)335

The Fried 
Rabbit 
(TFR)336

The Flash 
(TF)337

LND, RTS

“TEE THREE”
“6.5 GIGS”

USA

333 TEN, “The Ether Net Topsite (TEN-the.ether.net.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

334 TE, “The Enterprise Topsite (TE-the.enterprise.1998.05.13.nfo),” May 13, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
335 TE, “Total Eclipse Topsite (TE-total.eclipse.1998.01.11.nfo),” January 11, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
336 TFR, “The Fried Rabbit Topsite (TFR-the.fried.rabbit.1998.09.09.nfo),” 

September 9, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

337 TF, “The Flash Topsite (TF-the.flash.1997.01.17.nfo),” January 17, 1997, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

348

appendix

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

X, Dee, Hazzy, Phi-
ber, Dream, BasecW, 
Sting, Tinywulf, 
Gal339

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

The Gateway 
(TG)338

ENTiTY, 
REFLUX, 
PROPHECY

“20 GiGS”
“100 mbit”

USA

The Haven 
(TH)340

EMPiRE, X-
FORCE

Tragic King-
dom (TK)341

NvC, X-Force

“T3”
“12 Gigz”

Skydemon, SHmo, 
Icu812342

The Toilet 
(TLT)343

SWP, DARK-
STAR, Tension, 
LG, MaD, fATE, 
WLW

The Mother 
Superior 
(TMS)344

ORiGIN, KAC, 
PREMiERE, 
DiMENSION

USA

USA

338 TG, “The Gateway Topsite (TG-the.gateway.1999.01.10.nfo),” January 10, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
339 TG, “The Gateway Topsite (TG-the.gateway.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

340 TH, “The Haven Topsite (TH-the.haven.1998.08.30.nfo),” August 30, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

341 TK, “Tragic Kingdom Topsite (TK-tragic.kingdom.1997.06.24.nfo),” June 
24, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
342 TK, “Tragic Kingdom Topsite (TK-tragic.kingdom.1997.06.06.nfo),” June 
6, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
343 TLT, “The Toilet Topsite (TLT-the.toilet.1998.12.13.nfo),” December 13, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

344 TMS, “The Mother Superior Topsite (TMS-the.mother.superior.1999.02.13.
nfo),” February 13, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

 349

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Terrible Mis-
take (TM)345

RPG, FUSION, 
WARP, DARK-
STAR, PSYCHO

Russia

The Matrix 
(TM)346

BLC, BSC, 
BNW, Natosoft, 
RockForce

“19.5 GiGa-
ByTeS”
“266 BlaZing 
MhZ”
“WAR-FTPd”

The Number 
of the Beast 
(TNB)347

TeKno Rage, 
PiraSofT, 
SToRM, MO-
TiV8, EsTeeM, 
File PRoPuL-
SiON SySTeMs

The New 
Forge 
(TNF)348

REVOLT, MO-
TiV8, TUR

USA

LaZaRus

USA

Eyes22, KoraK, 
riches, Goliath^

The 
Neverland 
(TNL)349

Natosoft, FBW, 
Warez Central, 
Reflex, Threat, 
MOD, Nytekill

“blazing t3”

“22GB”
“Linux 2.0.36”
“Glftpd 1.18”350

West Coast 
USA

Papa, Eins, Dave/
Gniz, Blade

345 TM, “Terrible Mistake Topsite (TM-terrible.mistake.1999.02.13.nfo),” 

February 13, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

346 TM, “The Matrix Topsite (TM-the.matrix.1999.09.25.nfo),” September 25, 

1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

347 TNB, “The Number of the Beast Topsite (TNB-the.number.of.the.

beast.1997.10.21.nfo),” October 21, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collec-
tion.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

348 TNF, “The New Forge Topsite (TNF-the.new.forge.1997.06.12.nfo),” June 12, 

1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

349 TNL, “The Neverland Topsite (TNL-the.neverland.1999.02.12.nfo),” Febru-
ary 12, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
350 TNL, “The Neverland Topsite (TNL-the.never.land.1999.04.14.nfo),” April 
14, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

350

appendix

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

SiEGE, CLASS

The Nympho 
Temple 
(TNT)351

USA

The Orion 
Syndicate 
(TOS)352

SiEGE, CLASS, 
DEVOTiON, 
PGC, EviL

devestator, garoto, sj

Technology 
Overload 
(TO)353

SYNTHESiS, 
GLoW, TPC, 
TRPS, DiVINE

“10MBITS”
“17 GiGS”

USA

techfuzz, CraZy-
FiRE354

Temple of 
Torture 
(TOT)355

ESPRiT, CRYS-
TAL, GWA, 
RDC, 2000AD, 
CNC, DEMON, 
TPC

Europe

351  TNT, “The Nympho Temple Topsite (TNT-the.nympho.temple.1997.07.12.
nfo),” July 12, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

352 TOS, “The Orion Syndicate Topsite (TOS-the.orion.syndicate.1999.03.29.
nfo),” March 29, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

353 TO, “Technology Overload Topsite (TO-technology.overload.1998.02.25.
nfo),” February 25, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

354 TO, “Technology Overload Topsite (TO-technology.overload.1998.02.10.
nfo),” February 10, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

355 TOT, “Temple of Torture Topsite (TOT-temple.of.torture.1999.04.24.nfo),” 
April 24, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

 351

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

The Pharma-
cy (TPH)356

“T1+”

The Proph-
ecy (TP)357

MnM, CORE, 
DOD

“XFTP’d”
“T3/DS3”358

USA

Sxxxxx, Kxxxx 
,Exxxx359

“OC48 Con-
nection”
“550GiG”

South 
Korea361

The Pyramid 
(TP)360

MOONSHINE, 
LND, MYTH, 
SOLiTUDE, 
SCAR, dF, 
PROPHECY, 
GWA, HERIT-
AGE, 2000AD, 
EPTiSO, DEVi-
ANCE, TFL, 
PARADOX, 
VCD-EUROPE

356 TPH, “The Pharmacy Topsite (TPH-the.pharmacy.1998.07.27.nfo),” July 27, 

1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
357 TP, “The Prophecy Topsite (TP-the.prophecy.1998.03.11.nfo),” March 11, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
358 TP, “The Prophecy Topsite (TP-the.prophecy.1997.08.01.nfo),” August 1, 
1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
359 TP, “The Prophecy Topsite (TP-the.prophecy.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

360 TP, “The Pyramid Topsite (TP-the.pyramid.2000.04.28.nfo),” April 28, 
2000, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

361 TP, “The Pyramid Topsite (TP-the.pyramid.1999.12.13.nfo),” December 13, 

1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

352

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

The Raging 
Monkey 
(TRM)362

The Rising 
Sun (TRS)364

ftp4all363

SiEGE, CLASS “T3 SPEED”

USA

Maloo, KRS-ONE365

“10 GiGS”
“RFTPD”

The River 
(TR)366

MNM, RISE, 
THG

The Rock 
(TR)367

BLIZZARD, 
ORIGIN, PDA-
ZONE, PWA, 
PREMIERE

The Sadistic 
Grand-
daughter 
(TSG)368

Absolut, Esprit, 
Premiere, 
Prophecy, The 
Players Club

USA

USA

Europe

362 TRM, “The Raging Monkey Topsite (TRM-the.raging.monkey.1997.09.18.
nfo),” September 18, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

363 lester, “Which Ftpd Is Right for You?”
364 TRS, “The Rising Sun Topsite (TRS-the.rising.sun.1998.01.18.nfo),” August 
18, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
365 TRM, “The Rising Sun Topsite (TRS-the.rising.sun.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” 
n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
366 TR, “The River Topsite (TR-the.river.1997.05.29.nfo),” May 29, 1997, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

367 TR, “The Rock Topsite (TR-the.rock.1999.03.13.nfo),” March 13, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

368 TSG, “The Sadistic Granddaughter Topsite (TSG-the.sadistic.granddaugh-
ter.1999.04.20.nfo),” April 20, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 353

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

The Site 
(TS)369

iNTUTiLS, 
oDDiTy, JGT, 
PGC, ViSION, 
DF

Sweden

The Tomb-
stone (TS)370

FCN, RTA, ECG

USA

The 
Toxic Dump 
(TTD)371

RAZOR NINE-
TEEN ELEVEN, 
THE REVIEW-
ERS GUILD, 
RTN

“45 GiGz”
“T3”373

Europe

Titty Twister 
(TT)372

MANiFEST, 
DYNASTY, 
COUNCiL, 
ECLiPSE, 
2000AD, 
PiNNACLE, 
ORiGIN

The 
Unknown 
Realm 
(TUR)374

Fluke, Mercury, 
VLN, Hi-Jack, 
Distortion

hxxxx,  Nxxxxxxxx, 
Cxxxxx, pxx, 
Sxxxxxxx, Ixxxxxx

TOAST, MRMON-
STER, NASH, 
HOZIRIS

Tipz, Scumby, Garr

369 TS, “The Site Topsite (TS-the.site.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

370 TS, “The Tombstone Topsite (TS-the.tombstone.1998.12.24.nfo),” Decem-
ber 24, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

371 TTD, “The Toxic Dump Topsite (TTD-the.toxic.dump.1998.02.04.nfo),” 
February 4, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

372 TT, “Titty Twister Topsite (TT-titty.twister.1999.12.31.nfo),” December 31, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
373 TT, “Titty Twister Topsite (TT-titty.twister.1999.03.19.nfo),” March 19, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

374 TUR, “The Unknown Realm Topsite (TUR-the.unknown.

realm.1998.09.16.nfo),” September 16, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

354

appendix

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Sitename

The Void 
(TVD)375

The Vanish-
ing Point 
(TVP)376

Tar Valon 
(TV)377

Terminal Ve-
locity (TV)378

“T3”
“50GB 0day”
“50GB iSO/
VCD”

DIMENSION, 
FALLEN, ORI-
GIN, PENTIUM 
FORCE TEAM, 
RENEGADE, 
REVOLUTION

USA

375 TVD, “The Void Topsite (TVD-the.void.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

376 TVP, “The Vanishing Point Topsite (TVP-the.vanishing.point.1998.09.15.

nfo),” September 15, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

377 TV, “Tar Valon Topsite (TV-tar.valon.1998.09.28.nfo),” August 28, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

378 TV, “Terminal Velocity Topsite (TV-terminal.velocity.1999.01.29.nfo),” 
January 29, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

 355

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

The Wolves 
House 
(TWH)379

Equality, Shock, 
TRPS, Core, 
PRECiSE

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Wolfje, Sony381

The Neth-
erlands380

Twilight 
(TWI)382

USA

“100Mbps 
connection”383

F4CG, RBS, 
DVN, MFD, 
RTS, CiFE, 
DVNiSO, 
RBSiSO, POR-
NOLATION, 
DTD, DVNPSX, 
DVNVCD

The Waste 
Land 
(TWL)384

REQUEST TO 
SEND, TRPS, 
UCF2000, 
WARRiOR, 
FATIGUED 
COURIERS 
NETWORK

Canada

SPEARFISH, 
DRUGGY, DiZZY, 
MARBiTOZ385

379 TWH, “The Wolves House Topsite (TWH-the.wolves.house.1999.12.30.

nfo),” December 30, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

380 TWH, “The Wolves House Topsite (TWH-the.wolves.house.1998.02.15.

nfo),” February 15, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

381 TWH, “The Wolves House Topsite (TWH-the.wolves.house.1997.03.21.
nfo),” March 21, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

382 TWI, “Twilight Topsite (TWI-twilight.1999.12.02.nfo),” December 2, 1999, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

383 TWI, “Twilight Topsite (TWI-twilight.XXXX.XX.02.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

384 TWL, “The Waste Land Topsite (TWL-the.waste.land.1998.07.29.nfo),” July 
29, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
385 TWL, “The Waste Land Topsite (TWL-the.waste.land.1997.05.22.nfo),” May 
22, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

356

appendix

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Terra X 
(TX)386

AoD, CrC’98, 
KLN, UCL

“T-1+”
“22Gb”

USA

Notes

Tys

Unhuman 
Creations 
(UC)387

SKL, LND, 
Motiv8, EPI

United Cen-
tre (UC)388

Uncon-
quered 
Dreams 
(UD)389

“130 GB online” United 

Kingdom 
(inferred 
from 
spelling of 
“Centre” 
in British 
English)

“3mbit ADSL”
“30Gb Online”

DarkNinja390

386 TX, “Terra X Topsite (TX-terra.x.1998.02.14.nfo),” February 14, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

387 UC, “Unhuman Creations Topsite (UC-unhuman.creations.1998.08.27.
nfo),” August 27, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

388 UC, “United Centre Topsite (UC-united.centre.1998.08.21.nfo),” August 21, 

1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

389 UD, “Unconquered Dreams Topsite (UD-unconquered.dreams.1999.01.28.
nfo),” January 28, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

390 UD, “Unconquered Dreams Topsite (UD-unconquered.dreams.XXXX.
XX.01.nfo),” n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

 357

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Unleashed 
(ULS)391

Universe 
(UNV)393

Utwente 
(UT)394

CORE, CNC, 
TRSi, oDDity, 
GWA, MiB, ES-
PRiT, TRSiISO, 
COREpda, 
POEpda

VIETSOUND, 
TRPS, F4CG, 
PHOENiX, 
SHOCK, MO-
TiV8

ROYALGSM, 
ECLiPSE, 
CROSSFiRE, 
BliZZARD, 
LAXiTY, 
FALLEN, RiSE, 
DOMiNiON, 
RAZOR 1911, 
PARADOX, 
TFAiSO

“T3”
“25+GB”

Europe MeDlor, Sekmeth, 

AfterDark392

Europe

The Neth-
erlands

(Based 
at the 
University 
of Twente, 
inferred 
from 
name)

Under 
World 
(UW)395

OriGiN, iNTU-
TiLS, HARLEM, 
RBSiSO

“Scorching 
OC-12”
“24 Gig”

USA

IsuGuy, IsuGal396

391 ULS, “Unleashed Topsite (ULS-unleashed.1999.09.14.nfo),” September 14, 

1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
392 ULS, “Unleashed Topsite (ULS-unleashed.1999.03.26.nfo),” March 26, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
393 UNV, “Universe Topsite (UNV-universe.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

394 UT, “Utwente Topsite (UT-utwente.2001.07.17.nfo),” July 17, 2001, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

395 UW, “Under World Topsite (UW-under.world.1999.05.06.nfo),” May 6, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
396 UW, “Under World Topsite (UW-under.world.1999.02.15.nfo),” February 
15, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

358

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

appendix

Vault Thir-
teen (V13)397

Virtual Di-
mension Re-
search Lake 
(VDR)398

Vision Fac-
tory (VF)402

CLS, DOD, 
DEV

“155Mbits”399

“4 Gigabytes 
iDE - SCSi2”400

Europe401 Red Dragon’s, JAMi-
Li, Muss,  Mrmorris
Samuraion
Sneeze

“70 GIG”
“100Mbit”

Germany 
(implied: 
has Ger-
man affils)

PDM, EQUAL-
ITY, CORE, 
RISCISO, PD-
MISO, MUD, 
DYNASTY, 
COUNCIL, 
GWA98, NBD, 
AMOK, DB

397 V13, “Vault Thirteen Topsite (V13-vault.thirteen.1998.08.01.nfo),” August 1, 

1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

398 VDR, “Virtual Dimension Research Lake Topsite (VDR-vdr.

lake.1998.04.02.nfo),” April 2, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

399 VDR, “Virtual Dimension Research Lake Topsite (VDR-vdr.

lake.1998.02.09.nfo),” February 9, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collec-
tion.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

400 

VDR, “Virtual Dimension Research Lake Topsite (VDR-vdr.

lake.1997.06.06.nfo),” June 6, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

401 VDR, “Virtual Dimension Research Lake Topsite (VDR-vdr.

lake.1997.05.16.nfo),” May 16, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

402 VF, “Vision Factory Topsite (VF-vision.factory.1999.03.18.nfo),” March 18, 

1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 359

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

sirebral, LHD, N3ga-
tive, Hack, PGN-
Creed, duhme404

Vampyre, Dwelar, 
KnickerZ, Midnight 
Avian

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Violent Illu-
sions (VI)403

Dongle, 
LiveEdge, LAX-
iTY, DF, GLoW, 
CWS

“Triple Dedi-
cated T1”
“35 GiG”

USA

Vampyre’s 
Lair (VL)405

PWA, Empire, 
SSC

“T3 SPEEDS”
“21 – Gigs”

USA

Valhalla 
(V)406

Europe

“200 gIG”
“100 mBIT”

CLASS, 
SHOCK, 
EQUALITY, 
DYNASTY, 
CORE, INTEN-
SION, HERIT-
AGE, OXYGEN, 
FAIRLIGHT, 
RISEISO, EP-
TISO, RBSISO, 
SHKiSO, G.N.S., 
PNTiSO, PARA-
DOX, HS

403 VI, “Violent Illusions Topsite (VI-violent.illusions.1999.09.18.nfo),” 

September 18, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

404 VI, “Violent Illusions Topsite (VI-violent.illusions.1999.06.11.nfo),” June 11, 

1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

405 VL, “Vampyre’s Lair Topsite (VL-vampyres.lair.1997.10.21.nfo),” October 21, 

1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

406 

V, “Valhalla Topsite (V-valhalla.2000.07.17.nfo),” July 17, 2000, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

360

appendix

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Warp Factor 
Ten (W10)407

EMPiRE, Pin-
nacle, TFT

“Er33tD”

Europe408 Beta, Bsphere, Icu812, 

Warp, Devan, Mark-
goh409

Wet Dreams 
(WD)410

REBELS, 
EQUALITY, 
DONGLE, PGC

Europe411

Warez 
Free Zone 
(WFZ)412

MiB, iLT, M8, 
DDC

“T1 c0NNEX-
iON”

White House 
(WH)413

EQUALITY, 
CORE, Siege, 
HiD

USA

“COM-
PRESSED 
T-3 ONTO 
MCI BACK-
BONE”414

407 W10, “Warp Factor Ten Topsite (W10-warp.factor.ten.1997.11.07.nfo),” 

November 7, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

408 W10, “Warp Factor Ten Topsite (W10-warp.factor.ten.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” 

n.d., DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

409 

W10, “Warp Factor Ten Topsite (W10-warp.factor.ten.1997.09.30.

nfo),” September 30, 1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

410 WD, “Wet Dreams Topsite (WD-wet.dreams.1999.05.27.nfo),” May 27, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
411 WD, “Wet Dreams Topsite (WD-wet.dreams.1999.04.25.nfo),” April 25, 
1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
412 WFZ, “Warez Free Zone Topsite (WFZ-warez.free.zone.1999.07.10.nfo),” 

July 10, 1999, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
413 WH, “White House Topsite (WH-white.house.1998.09.09.nfo),” September 

9, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
414 WH, “White House Topsite (WH-white.house.1998.03.15.nfo),” March 15, 

1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 361

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Wonder 
Land (WL)415

SHINING, 
GWA, EXO-
DUS, MiV

“20gIg”
“34mbIt”

Estonia 
(“EEHQ”)

The 
Windmill 
(WND)416

Karma, Revolt, 
DoG, DsC, 
Dynamic

Europe

LoG, zz187

World 
of Chaos 
(WOC)417

KAC

Wouldn’t 
You Prefer A 
Good Game 
of Chess? 
(WOPR)418

“Cable”

Warez Sector 
(WS)419

eXTReMe 
WaReZ CouRi-
eRS, AOD, 
EWC, SHOCK, 
SWAT

East Coast 
USA (“eaST 
HQ”)

415 WL, “Wonder Land Topsite (WL-wonderland.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

416 WND, “The Windmill Topsite (WND-the.windmill.1997.06.19.nfo),” June 
19, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
417 WOC, “World of Chaos Topsite (WOC-world.of.chaos.1998.07.05.nfo),” 

July 5, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

418 WOPR, “Wouldn’t You Prefer A Good Game of Chess? Topsite (WOPR-
wopr.1998.08.14.nfo),” August 14, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collec-
tion.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

419 WS, “Warez Sector Topsite (WS-warez.sector.1997.04.17.nfo),” April 17, 
1997, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

362

appendix

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

The World 
Trade Center 
(WTC)420

ENTiTY, 
MOTiV8, REU-
NiTED

“T3”
“25+GiGz”

Europe

Watch Tower 
(WT)421

Pirates Gone 
Crazy, Teenag-
ers in Crime, 
2000AD, Revolt, 
Real Time 
Pirates

Wild West 
(WW)422

AVALON 
Courier

“XFtpd”
“2XT1”
“18 Gig”

USA

Txxxxxx
Cxxxxxxx, 
Mxxxxxxx, Ixxxx, 
Vxxxxx
xxxxx, Kxxxxxxx

Darksch

X Filez 
(XF)423

“T1”
“12 Gigabytes”

AVN, DsC, INJ, 
MaD, Motiv8, 
NEC, O13, RTN, 
RTP, STORM, 
uCu

USA424

Xfilez, MarkGoh

Xenosis 
(XNS)425

Class, MnM, 
RiSE, NO-
BLiEGE, DNG

“3xT3”
“70 GiG”426

USA

KBM, Return Link, 
Xoen, Split242, 
Digitzz, Hodd, Moz, 
tdpriest, Daman

420 WTC, “World Trade Center Topsite (WTC-world.trade.center.1998.07.07.
nfo),” July 7, 1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

421 WT, “Watch Tower Topsite (WT-watch.tower.1998.03.02.nfo),” March 2, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
422 WW, “Wild West Topsite (WW-wild.west.1998.09.04.nfo),” September 4, 
1998, DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

423 XF, “X Filez Topsite (XF-x.filez.1997.08.15.nfo),” August 15, 1997, DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

424 XF, “X Filez Topsite (XF-x.filez.1997.07.25.nfo),” July 25, 1997, DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

425 XNS, “Xenosis Topsite (XNS-xenosis.1998.06.10.nfo),” June 10, 1998, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

426 XNS, “Xenosis Topsite (XNS-xenosis.1998.05.18.nfo),” May 18, 1998, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 363

warez

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Xquizit 
(XQZ)427

Razor, X-Force, 
TRPS, UCF

USA

J0ker

X Zone 
(XZONE)428

WEAPON’98, 
Phoenix, Storm, 
Hazard

“2xT3”
“4 gb & 20+ gb 
Soon”
“Win-NT 
Server 4.0”429

Zeus 
(ZEUS)430

beatforge, cnc, 
gwa, nbl, ngit, 
ucf

Zilla 
(ZLA)431

DOD, RZR, 
CST, ASP, TFA, 
SR, TFAiSO, 
PoRNoLATioN, 
DVNVCD, 
TFAMp3, BMI

USA433

“10MBiTS”
“38 GiGS OF 
STORAGE”432

427 XQZ, “Xquizit Topsite (XQZ-xquizit.1999.07.24.nfo),” July 24, 1999, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

428 XZONE, “X Zone Topsite (XZONE-x.zone.1998.03.01.nfo),” March 1, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

429 XZONE, “X Zone Topsite (XZONE-x.zone.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d., 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

430 ZEUS, “Zeus Topsite (ZEUS-zeus.1998.11.20.nfo),” November 20, 1998, 

DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

431 ZLA, “Zilla Topsite (ZLA-zilla.1999.06.30.nfo),” June 30, 1999, DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

432 ZLA, “Zilla Topsite (ZLA-zilla.1998.08.09.nfo),” August 9, 1998, DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

433 ZLA, “Zilla Topsite (ZLA-zilla.1999.02.17.nfo),” February 17, 1999, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

364

appendix

Sitename

Known Affils Known Hard-
ware/Software

Z Land 
(ZL)434

Clockwerk, 
Illusion, BL98, 
Resource, DOG

“28 gigs”
“3 MBit”

Location Siteops and Nukers/

Notes

Zman

434 ZL, “Z Land Topsite (ZL-zland.1998.12.02.nfo),” December 2, 1998, De-

Facto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 365

Bibliography

By necessity, the bibliography to this work must cite a number 
of unconventional works that are not covered by standard style 
manuals.  In  particular,  I  need  to  make  reference  to  NFO  files 
that contain ASCII art and other iNFOrmation about the Warez 
Scene.  As  noted  more  extensively  in  the  introduction,  one  of 
the primary sources upon which I draw is the DeFacto2 archive.
The  format  of  some  of  these  entries  should  be  explained. 
For  example,  722.  “722  Topsite  (722-722.1998.06.12.nfo),”  June 
12, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip. refers to a group of individuals who run a topsite called 
“722,” for which they created an advertorial NFO file about the 
site,  called  722-722.1998.06.12.nfo,  from  12  June  1998.  The  file 
itself can be found, in the archive, within the warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip file.

Not  all  files  in  the  DeFacto2  archive  are  within  zip  packs. 
Some are directly accessible via the site itself. Given that the ar-
chive makes no guarantees as to the stability of its URL structure, 
I list the filenames of the artefacts in the knowledge that URLs 
would only degrade over time if they were included.

For more on the ethics of citing Scene magazines and cred-
iting the original authors by their pseudonyms, please see the 
extensive discussion in the first chapter of this work.

 367

 
warez

“2b2t Photodiary: Inside Minecraft’s Most Offensive Server.” 
PCGamesN, October 17, 2016. https://www.pcgamesn.
com/minecraft/2b2t-photodiary-inside-minecrafts-most-
offensive-server.

“47 U.S. Code § 230 – Protection for Private Blocking and 
Screening of Offensive Material.” LII / Legal Information 
Institute, 1996. https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/
text/47/230.

“About.” psyBNC. 2008. https://psybnc.org/about.html.
“A Day in the Life of a Warez Broker.” Phrack Magazine, 1995. 

http://phrack.org/issues/47/20.html.

“Annual Death Toll from Piracy Rises.” ICC Commercial Crime 
Services, 2004. https://www.icc-ccs.org/index.php/405-
annual-death-toll-from-piracy-rises.

“Busted.allstarz.net.logs (Logs_Mandmore_4.txt),” n.d. 

DeFacto2, warez-scene-notices-2006-2010.

“Chairman Tony Krvaric.” The Republican Party of San 

Diego County, n.d. Archived at https://web.archive.org/
web/20160318222450/http://www.sandiegorepublicans.org/
chairman-tony-krvaric.html.

“Cyber Strike: FBI Agents Confiscated Computers and…” 

Chicago Tribune, January 29, 1997. https://www.
chicagotribune.com/news/ct-xpm-1997-01-29-9701300206-
story.html.

“European Top Couriers.” Courier Weektop Scorecard (CWS-

72.txt), October 2, 1999. DeFacto2.

“FBI Hunts Software Pirates,” CNET, January 28, 1997. https://

www.cnet.com/news/fbi-hunts-software-pirates/.
“Glftpd: Security Vulnerabilities.” CVE Details, November 
16, 2020. https://www.cvedetails.com/vulnerability-list/
vendor_id-346/Glftpd.html.

“Group Standings.” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_

issue_071-2004_13.nfo), March 2004. DeFacto2.

“Group Standings.” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_

issue_071-2004_13.nfo), March 2004. DeFacto2.

368

bibliography

“Imperator’s Base.” 2b2t Wiki, 2020. https://2b2t.miraheze.org/

wiki/Imperator%27s_Base.

“International Scenes.” Phrack Magazine, January 9, 1996. 

http://phrack.org/issues/65/15.html.

“Interview with raanu (‘Interviewk’).” The Marshall Mussolini 

Show (tmms_issue_082-2004_33.nfo), August 2004. 
DeFacto2.

“Invalid Official FLAC Standard Rules V3.0 (INVALID_
OFFICIAL_FLAC_STANDARD_RULES_V3.0-
SCENENOTICE.nfo),” January 9, 2017.

“iSSUE FiFTY EiGHT.” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_

issue_124-2005_23.nfo), June 2005. DeFacto2.

“iSSUE FiFTY EiGHT.” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_

issue_533-2013_14.nfo), 2013. DeFacto2.

“Justice Department Announces Four Pleas in Internet Music 
Piracy Crackdown.” US Department of Justice, February 
28, 2006. https://www.justice.gov/archive/opa/pr/2006/
February/06_crm_103.html.

“Justice Department Announces International Piracy Sweep.” 
US Department of Justice, April 22, 2004. https://www.
justice.gov/archive/opa/pr/2004/April/04_crm_263.htm.
“LAMURGH QUOTES.” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_

issue_082-2004_33.nfo), August 2004. DeFacto2.

“LAMURGH QUOTES.” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_

issue_174-2006_22.nfo), June 2006. DeFacto2.

“LAMURGH QUOTES.” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_
issue_190-2006_38.nfo), September 24, 2006. DeFacto2.
“LAMURGH QUOTES.” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_

issue_394-2010_32.nfo), July 2010. DeFacto2.

“LAMURGH QUOTES.” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_

issue_563-2013_44.nfo), November 2013. DeFacto2.

“Music File-Sharer ‘Oink’ Cleared of Fraud.” BBC News, January 
15, 2010. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/tees/8461879.
stm.

“news.” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_

issue_001-2002_47.nfo), November 2002. DeFacto2.

 369

warez

“Operation Cyber Strike.” Bankers Online, March 1, 1997. 

https://www.bankersonline.com/articles/103656.

“Operation Buccaneer (operation_buccaneer.txt),” 2000. 

mp3scene.info.

“opfastlink.txt,” 2002. http://144.217.177.36:1421/EBooks/

paraZite/opfastlink.txt.

“Organist Wins Procol Harum Battle.” BBC News, December 

20, 2006. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6196413.
stm.

“Pair Convicted of Internet Piracy.” BBC News, March 16, 2005. 

http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/4336401.stm.

“Rank.” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_

issue_054-2003_48.nfo), December 2003. DeFacto2.

“RELEASES OF THiS WEEK.” The Marshall Mussolini Show 
(tmms_issue_171-2006_19.nfo), April 2006. DeFacto2.

“RELEASES OF THiS WEEK.” The Marshall Mussolini 

Show (tmms_issue_293-2008_36.nfo), September 2008. 
DeFacto2.

“Rules.” What.CD, n.d. http://rescene.wikidot.com/what-cd-

rules.

“RULES OF KETCHUP.” Ketchup (ketchup_issue_19-2003.

nfo), April 2003. DeFacto2.

“Scene Busts and Mitigations (Scene_busts_And_Mitigations.

png),” 2020. DeFacto2.

“SCENE QUOTES.” Ketchup (ketchup_issue_19-2003.nfo), 

April 2003. DeFacto2.

“Scene.Ban.SCR.and.RiDERz.Leader.READNFO-iND (Scene.
Ban.SCR.and.RiDERz.Leader.READNFO-iND.nfo),” n.d. 
DeFacto2, warez-scene-notices-2006-2010.
“SceneBusts10 (scenebusts10.htm),” 2000. paraZite.
“Scene.Notice.FiNaLe (finale.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez-

scene-notices-2006-2010.

“Security.Warning.take.note.ppl-BwaRe (security.warning.
take.note.ppl-bware.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez-scene-
notices-2006-2010.

370

bibliography

“Site.Info.Leaker.READ.NFO.Updated-iND (screamia.updated.

nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez-scene-notices-2006-2010.
“Site.Security.READNFO-acksyn (Site.Security.for.Users.

Windows.XP.1.3-acksyn.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez-scene-
notices-2006-2010.

“Sites Received.” Courier Weektop Scorecard (CWS-72.txt), 

October 2, 1999. DeFacto2.

“stats.” The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_

issue_105-2005_04.nfo), January 2005. DeFacto2.
“Stats for CFL (CONTiNUOUS FLOW).” The Marshall 

Mussolini Show (tmms_issue_196-2006_44.nfo), October 
2006. DeFacto2.

“Swedish Police Raid File Sharing ‘Scene’.” The Local, 

September 7, 2010. https://www.thelocal.se/20100907/28826.
“The Best In-Game Piracy Punishments.” PC Gamer, September 

14, 2017. https://www.pcgamer.com/the-best-in-game-
piracy-punishments/.

“The truth about depax (xdd22245.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2.
“THEJudgeHolden.” 2b2t Wiki, 2020. https://2b2t.miraheze.

org/wiki/THEJudgeHolden.

“Timeline.” 2b2t Wiki, 2020. https://2b2t.miraheze.org/wiki/

Timeline.

 “Topsite Rules.” Rescene, 2020. http://rescene.wikidot.com/

topsite-rules#toc4.

“wkup.”  The Marshall Mussolini Show (tmms_

issue_054-2003_48.nfo), December 2003. DeFacto2.
[S]peedy. “What Was the Best Site of Alltime?” Netmonkey 
Weekly Report (nwr-19.txt), October 5, 1998. DeFacto2.

00mpah. “Site list (sites.txt),” May 3, 2003.
2Eleven, 86D, Atmo, BCC, BriBerY, c05, CMC, et al. “Official.

FLAC.Standard.Rules v3.0 (nfo_2016_FLAC.nfo).” 
Scenerules.org, June 15, 2016. scenerules.org.

722. “722 Topsite (722-722.1998.06.12.nfo),” June 12, 1998. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

 371

warez

A0. “Absolute Zero Topsite (A0-absolute.zero.XXXX.XX.01.

nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

A144. “Area One Four Four Topsite (A144-area.one.four.

four.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

AAF. “Always Around Forever Topsite (AAF-always.around.

forever.1998.07.18.nfo),” July 18, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Abbate, Janet. Inventing the Internet. Cambridge: MIT Press, 

2000.

ABY. “The Abyss Topsite (ABY-abyss.1999.06.28.nfo),” June 28, 
1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

ACME, AiR, ALiAS, ARN, BACKLASH, BEAN, BLiZZARD, 
et al. “0day Scene Release Rules (nfo_2010.1_0DAY.nfo).” 
Scenerules.org, January 12, 2010. scenerules.org.

Adelstein, Jake. “Global Vice: The Expanding Territory of the 
Yakuza.” Journal of International Affairs 66, no. 1 (2012): 
155–61.

AF. “Angel Food Topsite (AF-angel.food.2000.09.21.nfo),” 

September 21, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

AF1. “AiR Force One Topsite (AF1-air.force.one.1998.02.12.
nfo),” February 12, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “AiR Force One Topsite (AF1-air.force.one.2000.04.12.
nfo),” April 12, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

AH. “The Ant Hill Topsite (AH-the.anthill.1997.06.18.nfo),” 

June 18, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Ain, Stuart L. Stratton Oakmont, Inc. v. Prodigy Services Co., 
No. 23 Media L Rep 1794 (Supreme Court, Nassau County, 
New York May 24, 1995).

Akerhaug, Lars, and Nicolai Heyerdahl. “Nordmann Siktet 

for Fildeling Etter Internasjonal Storaksjon.” Aftenposten, 

372

bibliography

September 7, 2010. https://www.aftenposten.no/norge/i/
Jo2dP/nordmann-siktet-for-fildeling-etter-internasjonal-
storaksjon.

AKS. “Arrakis Topsite (AKS-arrakis.2000.06.01.nfo),” June 1, 

2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

AL. “Agnos Land Topsite (AL-agnos.land.1998.09.06.nfo),” 
September 6, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Alexander, Peter J. “Peer-to-Peer File Sharing: The 

Case of the Music Recording Industry.” Review of 
Industrial Organization 20, no. 2 (2002): 151–61. DOI: 
10.1023/A:1013819218792.

Allport, Gordon W., and L.J. Postman. The Psychology of 
Rumor. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1947.

ALT. “Althea Topsite (ALT-althea.1999.09.22.nfo),” September 
22, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

AM. “The Angry Moose Topsite (AM-the.angry.

moose.1997.08.06.nfo),” August 6, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

AMB. “Ambiquous Topsite (AMB-ambiquous.1998.02.18.nfo),” 
February 18, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Anderson, John L. “Piracy and World History: An Economic 
Perspective on Maritime Predation.” In Bandits at Sea: A 
Pirates Reader, edited by C.R. Pennell, 82–106. New York: 
New York University Press, 2001.

Andersson, Jonas, and Stefan Larsson. “The Justification 

of Piracy: Differences in Conceptualization and 
Argumentation between Active Uploaders and Other 
File-Sharers.” In Piracy: Leakages from Modernity, edited 
by Martin Fredriksson and James Arvanitakis, 217–40. 
Sacramento: Litwin Books, 2014.

Anemia. “Interview with The Punisher (interview with the 

punisher - anemia1.png),” January 1997. DeFacto2.

 373

warez

APC. “Apocalypse Topsite (APC-apocalypse.1999.12.10.nfo),” 
December 10, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

ASP. “Alpha Storage Place Topsite (ASP-alpha.storage.

place.1997.10.12.nfo),” October 12, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Alpha Storage Place Topsite (ASP-alpha.storage.

place.1998.08.27.nfo),” August 27, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

ATL. “Atlantis Topsite (ATL-atlantis.XXXX.XX.01.nfo),” n.d. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

ATX. “Atomic-X Topsite (ATX-atomic.x.1999.05.05.nfo),” May 
5, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

AV. “Alternate Void Topsite (AV-alternate.void.1998.11.26.nfo),” 
November 26, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

AVF. “A Violent Fluid Topsite (AVF-a.violent.fluid.1997.11.18.
nfo),” November 18, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

AVL. “Avalon Topsite (AVL-avalon.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

AW. “Another World Topsite (AW-another.world.1999.07.02.
nfo),” July 2, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

AZ. “Alien Zone Topsite (AZ-alien.zone.1998.07.29.nfo),” July 
29, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

b-bstf. “Guide to Internet Piracy.” 2600: Hacker Quarterly 

(Summer 2004).

B2B. “Back to Babylon Topsite (B2B-back.

to.babylon.1998.05.21.nfo),” May 21, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

374

bibliography

Babits, Lawrence E., Joshua B. Howard, and Matthew Brenckle. 

“Pirate Imagery.” In X Marks the Spot: The Archaeology 
of Piracy, edited by Russell K. Skowronek and Charles R. 
Ewen, 271–81. Gainesville: University Press of Florida, 2006.

Bachmann, Michael. “Lesson Spurned? Reactions of 

Online Music Pirates to Legal Prosecutions by the RIAA.” 
International Journal of Cyber Criminology 1, no. 2 (2007): 
213–27. DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.18796.

Bale, Anthony. “Introduction.” In The Cambridge Companion to 
the Literature of the Crusades, edited by Anthony Bale, 1–8. 
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2018.

Balkin, Jack M. “Free Speech Is a Triangle.” Columbia Law 

Review 118, no. 7 (2018): 2011–56. https://columbialawreview.
org/content/free-speech-is-a-triangle/.

Bann, Stephen. Concrete Poetry: An International Anthology. 

London: London Magazine, 1967.

———, ed. The Tradition of Constructivism. London: Thames 

and Hudson, 1974.

BAR. “Beyond All Reality Topsite (BAR-beyond.all.reality.
XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Barblan, Matthew. “Copyright as a Platform for Artistic and 
Creative Freedom.” George Mason Law Review 23, no. 4 
(2016): 793–809. https://ssrn.com/abstract=2776797.

BAS. “Basilica Topsite (BAS-basilica.1999.04.22.nfo),” April 22, 
1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

Basamanowicz, Jonathan, and Martin Bouchard. “Overcoming 
the Warez Paradox: Online Piracy Groups and Situational 
Crime Prevention.” Policy & Internet 3, no. 2 (2011): 79–103. 
DOI: 10.2202/1944-2866.1125.

Basamanowicz, Jonathan R. “Release Groups & Digital 

Copyright Piracy.” Master’s thesis, Simon Fraser University, 
2011.

Basilisk. “The Beginner’s Guide to Ektoplazm.” Ektoplazm, July 
12, 2012. https://ektoplazm.com/blog/a-beginners-guide-to-
ektoplazm.

 375

warez

Baskin, Brian, Dan Connelly, Michael J. Schearer, Eric S. 

Seagren, and Thomas Whilhelm. Netcat Power Tools. Edited 
by Jan Kanclirz. Burlington: Syngress Publishing, Inc., 2008.

Bauder, Don. “Chairman of San Diego GOP Co-Founded 

International Piracy Ring, Says Online News Website.” San 
Diego Reader, April 29, 2008. https://www.sandiegoreader.
com/weblogs/financial-crime-politics/2008/apr/29/
chairman-of-san-diego-gop-co-founded-international/.
BB. “Busy Beavers Topsite (BB-busy.beavers.1999.03.25.nfo),” 
March 25, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Bleach Box Topsite (BBX-bleach.box.1996.10.17.

nfo),” October 17, 1996. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Bleach Box Topsite (BBX-bleach.box.1996.12.19.

nfo),” December 19, 1996. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

BB2. “Brand Beer 2 Topsite (BB2-brand.beer.two.1998.07.02.
nfo),” July 2, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

BDZ. “Beat Diz Topsite (BDZ-beatdiz.2000.11.20.nfo),” 

November 20, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Berman, Geoffrey S. “United States of America v. George 

Bridi,” August 1, 2020.

———. “United States of America v. Jonatan Correa a/k/a 

‘Raid’,” August 1, 2020.

———. “United States of America v. Umar Ahmad a/k/a 

‘Artist’,” August 1, 2020.

BF. “Black Forge Topsite (BF-black.forge.1998.05.01.nfo),” May 
1, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

Bhaskar, Michael. The Content Machine: Towards a Theory of 
Publishing from the Printing Press to the Digital Network. 
New York: Anthem Press, 2013.

Bhushan, A.K. “File Transfer Protocol.” Internet Engineering 
Task Force, April 16, 1971. https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc114.

376

bibliography

BL. “Black Lotus Topsite (BL-black.lotus.1997.06.12.nfo),” June 
12, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

BLD. “The Blade Topsite (BLD-the.blade.1998.03.23.nfo),” 
March 23, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Bliendbos. “Zijn hier ook nog ouwe fxp-ers?” FOK!forum, 

November 19, 2016. https://forum.fok.nl/topic/1831163/1/999.
BLIZ. “Blizzard Topsite (BLIZ-blizzard.1997.06.02.nfo),” June 2, 
1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

———. “Blizzard Topsite (BLIZ-blizzard.1997.12.06.nfo),” 
December 6, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

BM. “Byte Me Topsite (BM-byte.me.1999.04.15.nfo),” April 15, 
1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

Bodó, Balázs. “Coda: A Short History of Book Piracy.” 

In Media Piracy in Emerging Economies, edited by Joe 
Karaganis, 399–413. New York: Social Science Research 
Council, 2011.

———. “Library Genesis in Numbers: Mapping the 

Underground Flow of Knowledge.” In Shadow Libraries: 
Access to Educational Materials in Global Higher Education, 
edited by Joe Karaganis, 53–78. Cambridge: MIT Press, 2018.
———. “The Genesis of Library Genesis: The Birth of a Global 
Scholarly Shadow Library.” In Shadow Libraries: Access to 
Educational Materials in Global Higher Education, edited by 
Joe Karaganis, 25–52. Cambridge: MIT Press, 2018.
Bodó, Balázs, and Zoltán Lakatos. “Piracy Cultures| P2P 

and Cinematographic Movie Distribution in Hungary.” 
International Journal of Communication 6 (2012). https://
ijoc.org/index.php/ijoc/article/view/1261.

Bogost, Ian. “Persuasive Games: Process Intensity and Social 
Experimentation.” Gamasutra, May 23, 2012. https://www.
gamasutra.com/view/feature/170806/persuasive_games_
process_.php.

 377

warez

Bourdieu, Pierre. Outline of a Theory of Practice. Translated by 
Richard Nice. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1977.

BP. “Blood Pit Topsite (BP-blood.pit.1997.04.04.nfo),” April 4, 
1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

BPS. “Bits Per Second Topsite (BPS-bits.per.second.2000.07.03.
nfo),” July 3, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Bradford, Ryan. “Tony Krvaric Has Always Sucked,” 

AwkwardSD, September 3, 2020. https://awkwardsd.
substack.com/p/tony-krvaric-has-always-sucked.

Braudel, Fernand. The Mediterranean and The Mediterranean 
World in the Age of Philip II. Vol. 2. Translated by Siân 
Reynolds. New York: Harper and Row, 1972.

Brooker, Joseph. Jonathan Lethem and the Galaxy of Writing. 

London: Bloomsbury Academic, 2020.

Brown, Jeffrey A. “Comic Book Fandom and Cultural Capital.” 
The Journal of Popular Culture 30, no. 4 (Spring 1997): 13–31. 
DOI: 10.1111/j.0022-3840.1997.3004_13.x.

Brown, Wendy. Undoing the Demos: Neoliberalism’s Stealth 

Revolution. New York: Zone Books, 2015.

Bruckman, Amy. “Teaching Students to Study Online 

Communities Ethically.” Journal of Information Ethics 15, no. 
2 (2006): 82–98. doi: 10.3172/JIE.15.2.82.

BT. “The Beggar’s Tomb Topsite (BT-the.beggars.

tomb.1998.07.02.nfo),” July 2, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

BTP. “Babylon Trading Post Topsite (BTP-babylon.trading.
post.XXXX.XX.02.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

BULL. “The Bull Topsite (BULL-the.bull.1997.05.19.nfo),” May 
19, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

Burkart, Patrick. Pirate Politics: The New Information Policy 

Contests. Cambridge: MIT Press, 2014.

378

bibliography

CAM. “Camelot Topsite (CAM-camelot.1998.11.13.nfo),” 

November 13, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Camelot Topsite (CAM-camelot.1999.08.29.nfo),” 
August 29, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Camelot Topsite (CAM-camelot.XXXX.XX.02.nfo),” 
n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

CC. “Crawling Chaos Topsite (CC-crawling.chaos.1998.04.06.
nfo),” April 6, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

CD. “Core Dump Topsite (CD-core.dump.1998.08.25.nfo),” 
August 25, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Cenite, Mark, Michelle Wanzheng Wang, Chong Peiwen, and 
Germaine Shimin Chan. “More Than Just Free Content: 
Motivations of Peer-to-Peer File Sharers.” Journal of 
Communication Inquiry 33, no. 3 (2009): 206–21. DOI: 
10.1177/0196859909333697.

CH. “Cold Hell Topsite (CH-cold.hell.1998.08.31.nfo),” August 
31, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

CH1. “Channel One Topsite (CH1-channel.one.1998.09.05.
nfo),” September 5, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Chacksfield, Marc. “Police Arrest European File Sharers in 

Co-Ordinated Raids.” TechRadar, September 7, 2010. https://
www.techradar.com/news/internet/police-arrest-european-
file-sharers-in-co-ordinated-raids-715004.

Charles, Christopher. “Psyculture in Bristol: Careers, Projects, 

and Strategies in Digital Music-Making.” PhD diss., 
University of Bristol, 2019.

Cheng, Hsing K., Ronald R. Sims, and Hildy Teegen. “To 

Purchase or to Pirate Software: An Empirical Study.” Journal 
of Management Information Systems 13, no. 4 (1997): 49–60. 
DOI: 10.1080/07421222.1997.11518142.

 379

warez

Choo, Kim-Kwang Raymond, and Peter Grabosky. 

“Cybercrime.” In The Oxford Handbook of Organized Crime, 
edited by Letizia Paoli, 482–99. Oxford: Oxford University 
Press, 2014.

Cimpanu, Catalin. “Chrome 87 Released with Fix for NAT 
Slipstream Attacks, Broader FTP Deprecation.” ZDNet, 
November 17, 2020. https://www.zdnet.com/article/chrome-
87-released-with-fix-for-nat-slipstream-attacks-broader-ftp-
deprecation/.

Cisler, Steve. “Pirates of the Pacific Rim.” Leonardo 39, no. 4 
(August 2006): 377–80. DOI: 10.1162/leon.2006.39.4.377.
Clough, Bryan, and Paul Mungo. Approaching Zero: Data 
Crime and the Computer Underworld. London: Faber & 
Faber, 1992.

CMG. “Cemetery Gates Topsite (CMG-cemetary.

gates.1998.02.22.nfo),” February 22, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
———. “Cemetery Gates Topsite (CMG-cemetary.

gates.1998.09.21.nfo),” September 21, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

CO. “Covert Operation Topsite (CO-covert.

operations.1998.08.25.nfo),” August 25, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

COD. “Claws of Death Topsite (COD-claws.

of.death.1998.09.18.nfo),” September 18, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Claws of Death Topsite (COD-claws.

of.death.1998.11.02.nfo),” November 2, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Coleman, Gabriella. Coding Freedom: The Ethics and Aesthetics 
of Hacking. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2012.
Coleman, Sarah, and Nick Dyer-Witheford. “Playing on the 

Digital Commons: Collectivities, Capital and Contestation 
in Videogame Culture.” Media, Culture & Society 29, no. 6 
(2007): 934–53. DOI: 10.1177/0163443707081700.

Condry, Ian. “Cultures of Music Piracy: An Ethnographic 

Comparison of the US and Japan.” International 

380

bibliography

Journal of Cultural Studies 7, no. 3 (2004): 343–63. DOI: 
10.1177/1367877904046412.

CONG. “Cong Topsite (CONG-cong.1997.09.21.nfo),” 

September 21, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Conolly, Oliver, and Bashshar Haydar. “The Good, The Bad 
and The Funny.” The Monist 88, no. 1 (2005): 121–34. DOI: 
10.5840/monist20058817.

Cook, Deborah. The Culture Industry Revisited: Theodor W. 

Adorno on Mass Culture. Lanham: Rowman and Littlefield, 
1996.

Cooper, Jon, and Daniel M. Harrison. “The Social Organization 
of Audio Piracy on the Internet.” Media, Culture & Society 
23, no. 1 (2001): 71–89. DOI: 10.1177/016344301023001004.

Cornish, Derek B., and Roland V. Clarke. “Analyzing 

Organized Crimes.” In Rational Choice and Criminal 
Behaviour: Recent Research and Future Challenges, edited by 
Alex R. Piquero and Stephen G. Tibbetts, 41–64. New York: 
Routledge, 2002.

Coupland, Douglas. Microserfs. London: Flamingo, 1995.
Cowan, Rosie. “Jail for Net Pirates Who Saw Themselves as 
Robin Hoods.” The Guardian, May 7, 2005. http://www.
theguardian.com/technology/2005/may/07/crime.uknews.

Cowen, Tyler. In Praise of Commercial Culture. Cambridge: 

Harvard University Press, 2000.

CPX. “The Complex Topsite (CPX-the.complex.1997.01.03.

nfo),” January 3, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Craig, Paul. Software Piracy Exposed. Rockland: Syngress, 2005.
CRC. “Castle Rock County Topsite (CRC-castle.rock.

county.1997.04.03.nfo),” April 3, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Crisp, Virginia. “Access and Power: Film Distribution, Re-

Intermediation and Piracy.” In The Routledge Companion to 
World Cinema, edited by Rob Stone, Paul Cooke, Stephanie 
Dennison, and Alex Marlow-Mann, 445–54. London: 
Routledge, 2018.

 381

warez

———. “‘BLOODY PIRATES!!! *Shakes Fist*’: Reimagining 

East Asian Film Distribution and Reception through Online 
Filesharing Networks.” Journal of Japanese and Korean 
Cinema 3, no. 1 (2012): 65–72. DOI: 10.1386/jjkc.3.1.65_1.

———. Film Distribution in the Digital Age: Pirates and 
Professionals. London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2017.

———. “Release Groups & The Scene: Re-Intermediation 
and Competitive Gatekeepers Online.” Cinéma & Cie 17, 
no. 29 (Fall 2017): 67–79. https://riviste.unimi.it/index.php/
cinemaetcie/article/view/16570.

———. “The Piratical Is Political.” Soundings 55 (2013): 71–80. 

https://muse.jhu.edu/article/531188/pdf.

———. “To Name a Thief: Constructing the Deviant Pirate.” 
In Piracy: Leakages from Modernity, edited by Martin 
Fredriksson and James Arvanitakis, 39–54. Sacramento: 
Litwin Books, 2014.

CV. “Cash Vault Topsite (CV-cash.vault.1998.08.25.nfo),” April 
3, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

CWS. “Courier Weektop ScoreCard 001 (cws001.txt),” 

February 9, 1998. DeFacto2.

D. “Daedalus Topsite (D-daedalus.1998.01.05.nfo),” January 5, 
1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

DA. “Dark Ambitions Topsite (DA-dark.ambitions.XXXX.
XX.00.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Davies, William. The Limits of Neoliberalism: Authority, 

Sovereignty and the Logic of Competition. Thousand Oaks: 
Sage Publications, 2014.

Dawdy, Shannon Lee, and Joe Bonni. “Towards a General 
Theory of Piracy.” Anthropological Quarterly 85, no. 3 
(Summer 2012): 673–99. DOI: 10.1353/anq.2012.0043.

DBZ. “Divide By Zero Topsite (DBZ-divide.by.zero.2000.01.21.

nfo),” January 21, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

382

bibliography

———. “Divide By Zero Topsite (DBZ-divide.by.zero.XXXX.
XX.01.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DC. “Digital Corruption Topsite (DC-digital.

corruption.1998.02.12.nfo),” February 12, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Digital Corruption Topsite (DC-digital.

corruption.1998.03.18.nfo),” March 18, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Digital Crossroads Topsite (DC-digital.

crossroads.1998.09.02.nfo),” September 2, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Dream Castle Topsite (DC-dream.castle.1999.03.29.

nfo),” March 29, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DD. “Dark Data Topsite (DD-dark.data.1998.11.02.nfo),” 

November 2, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DDT. “Deadeloth Topsite (DDT-deadeloth.1997.11.17.nfo),” 
November 17, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

de Campos, Augusto, Decio Pignatari, and Harold de Campos. 

“Pilot Plan for Concrete Poetry.” In Concrete Poetry: A 
World View, edited by Mary Ellen Solt, 71–72. Bloomington: 
Indiana University Press, 1968.

de Souza, Philip. Piracy in the Graeco-Roman World. 
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999.

Décary-Hétu, David. “Police Operations 3.0: On the Impact 

and Policy Implications of Police Operations on the Warez 
Scene.” Policy & Internet 6, no. 3 (September 2014): 315–40. 
DOI: 10.1002/1944-2866.POI369.

Décary-Hétu, David, Carlo Morselli, and Stéphane Leman-
Langlois. “Welcome to the Scene: A Study of Social 
Organization and Recognition among Warez Hackers.” 
Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency 49, no. 3 
(2012): 359–82. DOI: 10.1177/0022427811420876.

 383

warez

DeFacto2. “Wanted Uploads.” GitHub, March 25, 2019. https://

github.com/Defacto2/defacto2.net.

Delaney, Erin. “Searching for Constitutional Meaning 
in Institutional Design: The Debate Over Judicial 
Appointments in the United Kingdom.” International 
Journal of Constitutional Law 14, no. 3 (2016): 752–68. DOI: 
10.1093/icon/mow044.

Demers, Joanna Teresa. Steal This Music: How Intellectual 

Property Law Affects Musical Creativity. Athens: University 
of Georgia Press, 2006.

Denegri-Knott, Janice. “Sinking the Online ‘Music Pirates’: 
Foucault, Power and Deviance on the Web.” Journal of 
Computer-Mediated Communication 9, no. 4 (2004). DOI: 
10.1111/j.1083-6101.2004.tb00293.x.

dennison. “DENNISON’S GAME REVIEW.” Netmonkey 
Weekly Report (nwr78.txt), March 29, 2000. DeFacto2.
Dent, Alexander Sebastian. “Introduction: Understanding the 
War on Piracy, Or Why We Need More Anthropology of 
Pirates.” Anthropological Quarterly 85, no. 3 (2012): 659–72. 
https://www.jstor.org/stable/41857266.

Devine, Kyle. “Nightmares on Wax: The Environmental Impact 
of the Vinyl Revival.” The Guardian, January 28, 2020. http://
www.theguardian.com/music/2020/jan/28/vinyl-record-
revival-environmental-impact-music-industry-streaming.

DF. “DaFat of the Land Topsite (DF-da.fat.1998.02.23.nfo),” 
February 23, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “DaFat of the Land Topsite (DF-da.fat.1998.09.16.
nfo),” September 16, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DF2. “DaFat of the Land 2 Topsite (DF2-da.fat.two.1998.10.14.

nfo),” October 14, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DF3. “DaFat of the Land 3 Topsite (DF3-da.fat.three.1999.06.05.
nfo),” June 5, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

384

bibliography

DGB. “DagoBah System Topsite (DGB-dagobah.1998.11.19.
nfo),” November 19, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DI. “Distorted Illusions Topsite (DI-distorted.illusions.XXXX.
XX.01.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Dibley, Sam. “Former Leader of Razor 1911, the Oldest Game 
Software Piracy Ring on the Internet, Sentenced.” US 
Department of Justice, June 6, 2003. https://www.justice.
gov/archive/criminal/cybercrime/press-releases/2003/
pitmanSent.htm.

DIP. “Digital Information Playground Topsite (DIP-digital.
information.playground.1998.02.28.nfo),” February 28, 
1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

DIS. “Disaster Topsite (DIS-disaster.1997.02.13.nfo),” February 
13, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

DK. “Digital Kingdom Topsite (DK-digital.

kingdom.1999.08.25.nfo),” August 25, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
———. “Digital Kingdom Topsite (DK-digital.

kingdom.1999.11.17.nfo),” November 17, 1999. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
DL. “Dark Land Topsite (DL-dark.land.1999.01.13.nfo),” 

January 13, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “DreamLand Topsite (DL-dream.land.1999.01.21.nfo),” 

January 21, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “DreamLand Topsite (DL-dream.land.1999.04.27.

nfo),” April 27, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DLM. “Delerium Topsite (DLM-delirium.1998.05.20.nfo),” May 
20, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

 385

warez

DLS. “Darklands Topsite (DLS-darklands.2000.03.26.nfo),” 
March 26, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DM. “Dream Machine Topsite (DM-dream.machine.1997.10.14.

nfo),” October 14, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DN. “Damn Nation Topsite (DN-damn.nation.1998.08.25.

nfo),” August 25, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DO. “Digital Overload Topsite (DO-digital.overload.1998.04.19.
nfo),” April 19, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DOPE. “Department of Pure Ecstacy Topsite (DOPE-

department.of.pure.ecstacy.1999.03.31.nfo),” March 31, 1999. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

DPT-d. “D.-.P.A.R.T.M.E.N.T Topsite (DPT-d.

partment.1999.03.12.nfo),” March 12, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DPX. “The Duplex Topsite (DPX-duplex.1997.04.01.nfo),” April 
1, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

DPZ. “Dropzone Topsite (DPZ-dropzone.2000.09.25.nfo),” 

September 25, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Drucker, Johanna. Figuring the Word: Essays on Books, Writing, 

and Visual Poetics. New York: Granary Books, 1998.
———. Graphesis: Visual Forms of Knowledge Production. 

Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2014.

———. The Visible Word, Experimental Typography and 

Modern Art, 1909–1923. Chicago: University of Chicago 
Press, 1997.

DS. “The Dark Side Topsite (DS-the.dark.side.1998.08.19.nfo),” 

August 19, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

386

bibliography

DST. “Dismal Surrection Topsite (DST-dismal.

surrection.1999.07.27.nfo),” July 27, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DTO. “Ditto Topsite (DTO-ditto.1998.10.01.nfo),” October 1, 

1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

Durham, Blake. “Circulatory Maintenance: The Entailments 
of Participation in Digital Music Platforms.” American 
Music 38, no. 2 (Summer 2020): 197–216. DOI: 10.5406/
americanmusic.38.2.0197.

dustie. “some little notes.” Front Line Scene Release Report 

(frontline_week_010.txt), July 7, 1999. DeFacto2.

DV. “Diamond Valley Topsite (DV-diamond.valley.1998.07.27.
nfo),” July 27, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

DXL. “Dixieland Topsite (DXL-dixieland.1999.02.22.nfo),” 
February 22, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Dyer-Witheford, Nick. “E-Capital and the Many Headed 
Hydra.” In Critical Perspectives on the Internet, edited 
by Greg Elmer, 129–63. Lanham: Rowman & Littlefield 
Publishers, 2002.

DZ. “Danger Zone Topsite (DZ-danger.zone.XXXX.XX.00.

nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

DZL. “The Dragonz Lair Topsite (DZL-the.dragonz.

lair.1998.02.05.nfo),” February 5, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

E999. “East 999 Topsite (E999-east.999.1997.05.03.nfo),” May 3, 
1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

EB. “Echo Base Topsite (EB-echo.base.1999.03.11.nfo),” March 
11, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

EC. “Eternal Chaos Topsite (EC-eternal.chaos.1999.05.19.

nfo),” May 19, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 387

warez

ECLI:NL:GHDHA:2013:BZ6496, voorheen LJN BZ6496, 22-

004070-11 (Gerechtshof Den Haag April 8, 2013).
ECLI:NL:RBROT:2011:BR5610, voorheen LJN BR5610, 

10/600129-08 (Rechtbank Rotterdam August 24, 2011).
ED. “The Evil Drome Topsite (ED-evil.drome.1998.07.26.

nfo),” July 26, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Edwards, Adam, and Michael Levi. “Researching the 
Organization of Serious Crimes.” Criminology 
& Criminal Justice 8, no. 4 (2008): 363–88. DOI: 
10.1177/1748895808097403.

EE. “Evil Echo Topsite (EE-evil.echo.1999.06.18.nfo),” June 18, 
1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

Eijk, Nico van, Joost Poort, and Paul Rutten. “Legal, Economic 
and Cultural Aspects of File Sharing.” Communications & 
Strategies 77, no. 1 (2010): 35–54.

Eliot, T.S. The Sacred Wood: Essays on Poetry and Criticism. 

New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1921.

EMP. “The Emporium Topsite (EMP-the.emporium.1997.05.28.
nfo),” May 28, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

END. “Endurance Topsite (END-endurance.1998.03.01.

nfo),” March 1, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

English, James F. The Economy of Prestige: Prizes, Awards, 

and the Circulation of Cultural Value. Cambridge: Harvard 
University Press, 2005.

EOE. “Essence of Earth Topsite (EOE-essence.

of.earth.2000.09.26.nfo),” September 26, 2000. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
———. “The Ends of the Earth Topsite (EOE-endz.of.the.

earth.1997.09.19.nfo),” September 19, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

EOS. “Edge of Sanity Topsite (EOS-edge.of.sanity.1997.11.01.
nfo),” November 1, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

388

bibliography

ER. “Escape Reality Topsite (ER-escape.reality.1997.08.25.

nfo),” August 25, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Eriksson, Maria. “A Different Kind of Story: Tracing the 
Histories and Cultural Marks of Pirate Copied Film.” 
Tecnoscienza: Italian Journal of Science & Technology Studies 
7, no. 1 (2016): 87–108. http://www.tecnoscienza.net/index.
php/tsj/article/view/254/168.

ET. “Etirnity Topsite (ET-etirnity.1996.08.10.nfo),” August 10, 

1996. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

Eve, Martin Paul. “Lessons from the Library: Extreme 

Minimalist Scaling at Pirate Ebook Platforms.” Digital 
Humanities Quarterly (2022), forthcoming.

———. Password. New York: Bloomsbury Academic, 2016.
———. Pynchon and Philosophy: Wittgenstein, Foucault and 

Adorno. London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2014.

———. The Digital Humanities and Literary Studies. Oxford: 

Oxford University Press, 2022.

———. “The Great Automatic Grammatizator: Writing, 

Labour, Computers.” Critical Quarterly 59, no. 3 (October 
2017): 39–54. DOI: 10.1111/criq.12359.

EVN. “Evasion Topsite (EVN-evasion.1998.10.26.nfo),” October 
26, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

Ewing, Tom. “Run-DMC vs Jason Nevins – ‘It’s Like That’.” 
FreakyTrigger, May 4, 2014. http://freakytrigger.co.uk/
popular/2014/05/run-dmc-vs-jason-nevins-its-like-that/.

F. “Flash Topsite (F-flash.1999.04.18.nfo),” April 18, 1999. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

F2. “Foundation Two Topsite (F2-foundation.two.1997.04.26.
nfo),” April 26, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Favale, Marcella, Neil MacDonald, Shamal Faily, and Christos 
Gatzidis. “Human Aspects in Digital Rights Management: 

 389

warez

The Perspective of Content Developers.” SSRN Electronic 
Journal (2016). DOI: 10.2139/ssrn.2729199.

FB. “Flashback Topsite (FB-flashbak.1998.08.25.nfo),” August 
25, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

FB2. “The Fat Babe Two Topsite (FB2-the.fat.babe.

two.1997.07.12.nfo),” July 12, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

FE. “Fatal Error Topsite (FE-fatal.error.1997.03.02.nfo),” March 
2, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

Federici, Silvia Beatriz. Caliban and the Witch: Women, the 

Body, and Primitive Accumulation. New York: Autonomedia, 
1997.

Ferrer, Mercè Molist. Hackstory.es: La Historia Nunca Contada 
del Underground Hacker en la Península Ibérica. Spain: 
published by the author: 2014.

FF. “Fire Fox Topsite (FF-fire.fox.1999.06.28.nfo),” June 28, 

1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

FH. “FalseHood Topsite (FH-false.hood.1998.02.26.nfo),” 

February 26, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “FalseHood Topsite (FH-false.hood.1998.08.27.nfo),” 
August 27, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Finley, Klint. “The Average Webpage Is Now the Size of the 

Original Doom.” Wired, April 23, 2016. https://www.wired.
com/2016/04/average-webpage-now-size-original-doom/.

Fiormonte, Domenico. “Towards a Cultural Critique of the 

Digital Humanities.” Historical Social Research / Historische 
Sozialforschung 37, no. 3 (2012): 59–76. https://www.jstor.
org/stable/41636597.

FK. “Foo.Keen Topsite (FK-foo.keen.1999.09.07.nfo),” 

September 7, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

390

bibliography

———. “Foo.Keen Topsite (FK-foo.keen.XXXX.XX.01.nfo),” 
n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

FL. “Frag Land Topsite (FL-frag.land.1998.05.15.nfo),” May 15, 
1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

———. “Fungus Land Topsite (FL-fungus.land.1998.08.12.

nfo),” August 12, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Fletcher, J. “The Painful Sting of Serious Sam 3’s Anti-Piracy 
Protection.” Engadget, December 7, 2011. https://www.
engadget.com/2011-12-07-the-painful-sting-of-serious-sam-
3s-anti-piracy-protection.html.

Fontaine, Marcel, and Filip De Ly. Drafting International 
Contracts: An Analysis of Contract Clauses. Ardsley: 
Transnational Publishers, 2006.

FOS. “Fortress of Solitude Topsite (FOS-fortress.

of.solitude.1998.02.10.nfo),” February 10, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Fortress of Solitude Topsite (FOS-fortress.

of.solitude.1998.12.23.nfo),” December 23, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

FP. “Floating Point Topsite (FP-floating.point.1997.06.08.nfo),” 
June 8, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

FS. “Fire Site Topsite (FS-fire.site.2000.09.14.nfo),” September 
14, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Fuckin Stoned Topsite (FS-fuckin.stoned.1997.10.30.

nfo),” October 30, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

FSN. “Fusion Topsite (FSN-fusion.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

FUBAR. “Fucked Up Beyond All Recognition Topsite 

(FUBAR-fucked.up.beyond.all.recognition.1997.01.20.nfo),” 

 391

warez

January 20, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Fukuyama, Francis. Trust: The Social Virtues and the Creation 

of Prosperity. New York: Free Press, 1995.

Furnell, S.M. “Categorising Cybercrime and Cybercriminals.” 
Journal of Information Warfare 1, no. 2 (2020): 35–44. 
https://www.jstor.org/stable/26486092.

Ganesh, Bharath. “The Ungovernability of Digital Hate 

Culture.” Journal of International Affairs 71, no. 2 (2018): 
30–49. https://www.jstor.org/stable/26552328.

Gantz, John, and Jack B. Rochester. Pirates of the Digital 

Millennium: How the Intellectual Property Wars Damage 
Our Personal Freedoms, Our Jobs, and the World Economy. 
Upper Saddle River: Prentice Hall, 2005.

Garcia, Antero, and Greg Niemeyer. “Introduction.” In 

Alternate Reality Games and the Cusp of Digital Gameplay, 
edited by Antero Garcia and Greg Niemeyer, 1–28. New 
York: Bloomsbury Academic, 2017.

Garrett, Ben. “Online Software Piracy of the Last Millennium,” 

April 27, 2004. DeFacto2. http://www.defacto2.net/file/
download/a53981.

Gellaerts, Sander. “Watermerken als juridisch bewijsmiddel: 

Een onderzoek naar de effectiviteit van digitale 
watermerken als juridisch bewijsmiddel.” PhD diss., Tilburg 
University, 2015.

GF. “General Failure Topsite (GF-general.failure.1997.01.04.

nfo),” January 4, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

GH. “Guru Heaven Topsite (GH-guru.heaven.1998.05.04.

nfo),” May 4, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Gibson, Joel. “Kookaburra Sits on a Small Fortune: Ruling on 
Down Under Royalties.” The Sydney Morning Herald, July 
6, 2010. https://www.smh.com.au/entertainment/music/
kookaburra-sits-on-a-small-fortune-ruling-on-down-
under-royalties-20100706-zy5l.html.

392

bibliography

glftpd. “Yet Another Traffic Bouncer.” 2020. https://github.com/

glftpd/yatb.

GM. “Guru Meditation Topsite (GM-guru.

meditation.1997.03.07.nfo),” March 7, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

GNS. “Genesis Topsite (GNS-genesis.1999.07.05.nfo),” July 5, 

1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

Goldberg, Daniel. “‘We Might be Old, but We’re Still the Elite’.” 
Computer Sweden, April 20, 2012. https://computersweden.
idg.se/2.2683/1.444716/we-might-be-old-but-were-still-the-
elite.

Goldman, Eric. “A Road to No Warez: The No Electronic Theft 
Act and Criminal Copyright Infringement.” Oregon Law 
Review 82 (2003): 369–432. https://scholarsbank.uoregon.
edu/xmlui/handle/1794/4613.

———. “The Challenges of Regulating Warez Trading.” Social 

Science Computer Review 23, no. 1 (2005): 24–28. DOI: 
10.1177/0894439304271531.

———. “Warez Trading and Criminal Copyright 

Infringement.” SSRN Electronic Journal (2004). DOI: 10.2139/
ssrn.487163.

Goode, Sigi. “Exploring the Supply of Pirate Software for 

Mobile Devices: An Analysis of Software Types and Piracy 
Groups.” Information Management & Computer Security 18, 
no. 4 (2010): 204–25. DOI: 10.1108/09685221011079171.
Goode, Sigi, and Sam Cruise. “What Motivates Software 

Crackers?” Journal of Business Ethics 65, no. 2 (May 2006): 
173–201. DOI: 10.1007/s10551-005-4709-9.

Goodin, Dan. “Wikileaks Judge Gets Pirate Bay Treatment.” 
The Register, February 21, 2008. https://www.theregister.
com/2008/02/21/wikileaks_bulletproof_hosting/.

Gottschalk, Peter. Entrepreneurship and Organized Crime: 

Entrepreneurs in Illegal Business. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar, 
2009.

Grafton, Anthony. The Footnote: A Curious History. Cambridge: 

Harvard University Press, 1999.

 393

warez

Grayson, Nathan. “Interview: Bohemia Interactive’s CEO on 
Fighting Piracy, Creative DRM.”  PC Gamer, November 
17, 2011. https://www.pcgamer.com/interview-bohemia-
interactives-ceo-on-fighting-piracy-creative-drm/.
Greene, Viveca S. “‘Deplorable’ Satire: Alt-Right Memes, 

White Genocide Tweets, and Redpilling Normies.” Studies 
in American Humor 5, no. 1 (2019): 31–69. DOI: 10.5325/
studamerhumor.5.1.0031.

greyline. “glFTPD Configuration File Examples (glftpd-LNX-
2.04_1.0.1e-2+deb7u3_x86_docs/glftpd.conf-EXAMPLES.
txt).” mewbies.com, 2014. http://mewbies.com/glftpd-LNX-
2.04_1.0.1e-2+deb7u3_x86_docs/glftpd.conf-EXAMPLES.
txt.

———. “glftpd-LNX-2.04_1.0.1e-glFTPD TLS README 
(2+deb7u3_x86_docs/README.TLS.txt).” mewbies.
com, 2014. http://mewbies.com/glftpd-LNX-2.04_1.0.1e-
2+deb7u3_x86_docs/README.TLS.txt.

GS. “Green Skull Topsite (GS-green.skull.1997.05.25.nfo),” May 
25, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

H. “Hades Topsite (HDS-hades.1998.06.12.nfo),” June 12, 1998. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

H2. “Hemispheres Two Topsite (H2-hemispheres.

two.1998.05.27.nfo),” May 27, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Hemispheres Two Topsite (H2-hemispheres.

two.1998.07.28.nfo),” July 28, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

H2H. “Highway 2 Hell Topsite (H2H-

highway.2.hell.2000.08.27.nfo),” August 27, 2000. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
Hall, Gary. Pirate Philosophy: For a Digital Posthumanities. 

Cambridge: MIT Press, 2016.

Harford, Tim. “High-Frequency Trading and the $440m 

Computer Glitch.” BBC News, August 11, 2012. https://www.
bbc.co.uk/news/magazine-19214294.

394

bibliography

Harrison, K. David, and Gregory Anderson. “Review of 

Proposal for Encoding Warang Chiti (Ho Orthography) in 
Unicode,.” Unicode.org, April 22, 2007.

Harwick, Cameron. “Cryptocurrency and the Problem of 

Intermediation.” The Independent Review 20, no. 4 (Spring 
2016): 569–88. DOI: 10.2139/ssrn.2523771.

HCN. “Holocron Topsite (HCN-holocron.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” 
n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

Hebdige, Dick. Subculture: The Meaning of Style. London: 

Routledge, 2002.

Hesmondhalgh, David. “Subcultures, Scenes or Tribes? None 

of the Above.” Journal of Youth Studies 8, no. 1 (2007): 21–40. 
DOI: 10.1080/13676260500063652.

HF. “Hard Floor Topsite (HF-hard.floor.1999.09.20.nfo),” 

September 20, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Hell Fire Topsite (HF-hell.fire.1997.05.16.nfo),” May 
16, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

HH. “The Happy Hippo Topsite (HH-the.happy.

hippo.1998.10.25.nfo),” October 25, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Hicks, Mar. Programmed Inequality: How Britain Discarded 
Women Technologists and Lost Its Edge in Computing. 
Cambridge: MIT Press, 2018.

Higgins, Charlotte. “China Miéville: Writers Should Welcome 
a Future Where Readers Remix Our Books.” The Guardian, 
August 21, 2012. http://www.theguardian.com/books/2012/
aug/21/china-mieville-novels-books-anti-piracy.

Hinduja, Sameer. Music Piracy and Crime Theory. New York: 

LFB Scholarly Pub., 2006.

———. “Neutralization Theory and Online Software Piracy: 
An Empirical Analysis.” Ethics and Information Technology 
9, no. 3 (2007): 187–204. DOI: 10.1007/s10676-007-9143-5.
Hobsbawm, Eric. Bandits. New York: Pantheon Books, 1981.

 395

warez

HOE. “Hades on Earth Topsite (HOE-hades.

on.earth.1999.01.20.nfo),” January 20, 1999. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Hogan, Marc. “Is Vinyl’s Comeback Here to Stay?” Pitchfork, 
January 22, 2018. https://pitchfork.com/features/article/is-
vinyls-comeback-here-to-stay/.

HOL. “Hall of Illusions Topsite (HOL-hall.

of.illusions.1999.10.28.nfo),” October 28, 1999. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Holm, Peter. “Piracy on the Simulated Seas: The Computer 

Games Industry’s Non-Legal Approaches to Fighting Illegal 
Downloads of Games.” Information & Communications 
Technology Law 23, no. 1 (2014): 61–76. DOI: 
10.1080/13600834.2014.899770.

Holsapple, Clyde W., Deepak Iyengar, Haihao Jin, and 

Shashank Rao. “Parameters for Software Piracy Research.” 
The Information Society 24, no. 4 (2008): 199–218. DOI: 
10.1080/01972240802189468.

Holt, Thomas J. “Subcultural Evolution? Examining the 

Influence of On- and Off-Line Experiences on Deviant 
Subcultures.” Deviant Behavior 28, no. 2 (2007): 171–98. DOI: 
10.1080/01639620601131065.

HOM. “House of Music Topsite (HOM-house.

of.music.2000.10.05.nfo),” October 5, 2000. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
Horkheimer, Max, and Theodor W. Adorno. “The Culture 

Industry: Enlightenment as Mass Deception.” In Dialectic of 
Enlightenment: Philosophical Fragments, edited by Gunzelin 
Schmid Noerr, translated by Edmund Jephcott, 95–136. 
Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2002.

HOW. “Hall of Warez Topsite (HOW-hall.of.warez.1997.05.24.
nfo),” May 24, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Hui, Yuk. On the Existence of Digital Objects. Minneapolis: 

University of Minnesota Press, 2016.

Huizing, Ard, and Jan A. van der Wal. “Explaining the Rise and 
Fall of the Warez MP3 Scene: An Empirical Account from 

396

bibliography

the Inside.” First Monday 19, no. 10 (2014). DOI: 10.5210/
fm.v19i10.5546.

Humphries, Jane. “Enclosures, Common Rights, and 

Women: The Proletarianization of Families in the Late 
Eighteenth and Early Nineteenth Centuries.” The Journal 
of Economic History 50, no. 1 (1990): 17–42. DOI: 10.1017/
S0022050700035701.

HW. “Hard Wired Topsite (HW-hard.wired.1997.03.27.nfo),” 
March 27, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Hard Wired Topsite (HW-hard.wired.1998.08.27.

nfo),” August 27, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

IC. “Identity Crisis Topsite (IC-identity.crisis.1999.03.31.nfo),” 

March 31, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

IMP. “The Imperium Topsite (IMP-imperium.1998.07.19.

nfo),” July 19, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Imperium Topsite (IMP-imperium.XXXX.XX.01.
nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

iNCiTE. “007 GoldenEye 1995 iNTERNAL DVDRip XviD 
(incite-goldeneye-xvid.nfo),” March 23, 2005. srrDB.

INF. “Infinity Topsite (INF-infinity.1998.04.10.nfo),” April 10, 

1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

Ingblad, Frederick. “Tillslag Mot Fildelningsnätverk.” 

Åklagarmyndigheten, September 8, 2010. https://web.
archive.org/web/20100908084809/https://www.aklagare.se/
Media/Nyheter/Tillslag-mot-fildelningsnatverk1/.

IP. “Internet Protocol Topsite (IP-internet.protocol.1999.10.05.

nfo),” October 5, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Irwin, John. Scenes. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications, 1977.

 397

warez

ISLE. “The Isle Topsite (ISLE-the.isle.1997.06.10.nfo),” June 10, 
1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

IST. “Insanity Storm Topsite (ISTORM-insanity.

storm.1998.08.13.nfo),” August 13, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
———. “Insanity Storm Topsite (ISTORM-insanity.

storm.1998.09.19.nfo),” September 19, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
IX. “Intoxicated Topsite (IX-intoxicated.1999.12.26.nfo),” 

December 26, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Jeffries, Fiona. “Reading ‘Caliban and the Witch’ Politically.” 
Gender, Place & Culture 25, no. 9 (2018): 1322–28. DOI: 
10.1080/0966369X.2018.1462772.

Jie, You. “Cultural Resistance or Corporate Assistance: 

Disenchanting the Anti-Capitalist Myth of Digital Piracy.” 
In Piracy: Leakages from Modernity, edited by Martin 
Fredriksson and James Arvanitakis, 195–215. Sacramento: 
Litwin Books, 2014.

JNG. “The Jungle Topsite (JNG-the.jungle.1998.08.18.nfo),” 
August 18, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Jungle Topsite (JNG-the.jungle.XXXX.XX.00.
nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

Johns, Adrian. Piracy: The Intellectual Property Wars from 

Gutenberg to Gates. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 
2011.

———. “Pop Music Pirate Hunters.” Daedalus 131, no. 2 
(2002): 67–77. https://www.jstor.org/stable/20027761.
K. “Kane Topsite (K-kane.XXXX.XX.01.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, 

warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
K2. “K2 Topsite (K2-k2.1998.03.21.nfo),” March 21, 1998. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

398

bibliography

Karkov, Catherine E., Anna Kłosowska, and Vincent W.J. 
van Gerven Oei, eds. Disturbing Times: Medieval Pasts, 
Reimagined Futures. Earth: punctum books, 2020.
Kaufman, Amy S., and Paul B. Sturtevant. The Devil’s 

Historians: How Modern Extremists Abuse the Medieval Past. 
Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 2020.

Keery, Justin. “Special Report on Electronic Gifts: Teenage 
Pirates and the Junior.” The Independent, December 11, 
1992. https://www.independent.co.uk/news/science/
special-report-on-electronic-gifts-teenage-pirates-and-the-
junior-underworld-parents-should-know-that-children-
can-buy-or-sell-illegal-copies-of-video-games-and-sex-
writes-justin-keery-1562928.html.

Kendall, Lori. “Nerd Nation: Images of Nerds in US Popular 
Culture.” International Journal of Cultural Studies 2, no. 2 
(1999): 260–83. DOI: 10.1177/136787799900200206.

Kevelson, Morton. “Isepic.” Ahoy!, October 1985, 71–73. https://
archive.org/details/ahoy-magazine-22/page/n69/mode/2up.

Kiberd, Roisin. “The Minecraft Server That Will Kill You 

1,000 Times.” Newsweek, September 15, 2016. https://www.
newsweek.com/2016/09/23/minecraft-anarchy-server-2b2t-
will-kill-you-498946.html.

KK. “Kalles Kaviar Topsite (KK-kalles.kaviar.1999.09.15.nfo),” 
September 15, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Kline, Stephen, Nick Dyer-Witheford, and Greig De Peuter. 
“Workers and Warez: Labour and Piracy in the Global 
Game Market.” In Digital Play: The Interaction of Technology, 
Culture, and Marketing, 197–217. Montreal: McGill-Queen’s 
University Press, 2003.

Klug, Patrick. “What Happens When Pirates Play a Game 

Development Simulator and Then Go Bankrupt Because 
of Piracy?” Greenheart Games, April 29, 2013. https://www.
greenheartgames.com/2013/04/29/what-happens-when-
pirates-play-a-game-development-simulator-and-then-go-
bankrupt-because-of-piracy/.

 399

warez

Knight Lightening and Taran King. “Phrack Pro-Phile 3: 

Featuring: User Groups and Clubs.” Phrack Magazine, June 
10, 1986. http://phrack.org/issues/6/2.html.

Kozinets, Robert V. Netnography: Ethnographic Research in the 
Age of the Internet. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications, 2010.

KRAD. “KRAD Topsite (KRAD-krad.1997.06.29.nfo),” 

September 15, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Krawczyk, Michał, Joanna Tyrowicz, Anna Kukla-Gryz, and 
Wojciech Hardy. “‘Piracy Is Not Theft!’ Is It Just Students 
Who Think So?” Journal of Behavioral and Experimental 
Economics 54 (2015): 32–39. DOI: 10.1016/j.socec.2014.11.003.
KRIB. “The Krib Topsite (KRIB-the.krib.1997.07.30.nfo),” July 
30, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

KRYNN. “Krynn Topsite (KRYNN-krynn.1997.11.25.nfo),” 

November 25, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

KSH. “Kashmir Topsite (KSH-kashmir.1997.02.22.nfo),” 

February 22, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

KTS. “Kinetics Topsite (KTS-kinetics.1997.01.15.nfo),” January 
15, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

Ku, Raymond Shih Ray. “The Creative Destruction of 

Copyright: Napster and the New Economics of Digital 
Technology.” The University of Chicago Law Review 69, no. 1 
(Winter 2002): 263–324. DOI: 10.2307/1600355.

Kugelberg, Johan, and Jon Savage. Punk: An Aesthetic. New 

York: Rizzoli, 2012.

LA. “Lunatic Asylum Topsite (LA-lunatic.asylum.1995.04.21.
nfo),” April 21, 1995. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Lamer. “TNT.” The Unbiased DOX Report (DR200510.TXT), 

July 11, 2005. DeFacto2.

Lasica, J.D. Darknet: Hollywood’s War against the Digital 

Generation. Hoboken: Wiley, 2005.

400

bibliography

Lawson, Stuart. “Open Access Policy in the UK: From 

Neoliberalism to the Commons.” PhD diss., Birkbeck, 
University of London, 2019. https://hcommons.org/
deposits/item/hc:23661/.

Leisure. Cubby, Inc. v. CompuServe, Inc., No. 776 F Supp 135 
(United States District Court, S.D. New York October 29, 
1991).

Lessig, Lawrence. Free Culture: The Nature and Future of 

Creativity. New York: Penguin Books, 2004.

———. Remix: Making Art and Commerce Thrive in the 
Hybrid Economy. New York: Penguin Books, 2008.

lester. “Deep Thoughts.” Netmonkey Weekly Report (nwr17.txt), 

August 16, 1998. DeFacto2.

———. “Stories from the Watercooler.” Netmonkey Weekly 

Report (nwr47.txt), May 11, 1999. DeFacto2.

———. “The Art of Good Trading.” Netmonkey Weekly Report 

(nwr28.txt), December 22, 1998. DeFacto2.

———. “Which Ftpd Is Right for You?” Netmonkey Weekly 

Report (Nwr36.Txt), February 22, 1999.

Levi, Michael. “Organized Crime.” In The Oxford Handbook of 
Criminology, edited by Mike Maguire, Rodney Morgan, and 
Robert Reiner. 3rd edn. New York: Oxford University Press, 
2002.

Levin, Aron M., Mary Conway Dato-on, and Kenneth Rhee. 
“Money for Nothing and Hits for Free: The Ethics of 
Downloading Music from Peer-to-Peer Web Sites.” Journal 
of Marketing Theory and Practice 12, no. 1 (2004): 48–60. 
DOI: 10.1080/10696679.2004.11658512.

Limayem, Moez, Mohamed Khalifa, and Wynne W. Chin. 

“Factors Motivating Software Piracy: A Longitudinal Study.” 
IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management 51, no. 4 
(November 2004): 414–25. DOI: 10.1109/TEM.2004.835087.

Linebaugh, Peter, and Marcus Rediker. The Many-Headed 

Hydra: Sailors, Slaves, Commoners, and the Hidden History 
of the Revolutionary Atlantic. Boston: Beacon Press, 2003.

 401

warez

LIS. “Lost in Space Topsite (LIS-lost.in.space.1997.08.13.nfo),” 
August 13, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Lithgow, Timothy. “Sci-Fi Unveils the ‘Geek Pound’.” 

MediaWeek, June 27, 2005. https://www.campaignlive.co.uk/
article/sci-fi-unveils-geek-pound/510998.

Liu, Alan. The Laws of Cool: Knowledge Work and the Culture of 
Information. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2004.

LL. “Low Lands Topsite (LL-low.lands.1999.09.08.nfo),” 

September 8, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Lobato, Ramón. Shadow Economies of Cinema: Mapping 

Informal Film Distribution. London: Palgrave Macmillan, 
2012.

Lobato, Ramon, and Julian Thomas. “An Introduction to 

Informal Media Economies.” Television & New Media 13, no. 
5 (2012): 379–82. DOI: 10.1177/1527476412443565.

Logan, Lucas. “The IPR GPR: The Emergence of a Global 
Prohibition Regime to Regulate Intellectual Property 
Infringement.” In Piracy: Leakages from Modernity, edited 
by Martin Fredriksson and James Arvanitakis, 137–56. 
Sacramento: Litwin Books, 2014.

Lomuto, Sierra. “White Nationalism and the Ethics of Medieval 

Studies.” In the Middle, December 5, 2016. https://www.
inthemedievalmiddle.com/2016/12/white-nationalism-and-
ethics-of.html.

Lord Rameses. “Interview with hodd of VOLiTiON.” Courier 
Weektop Scorecard (CwS-116.txt), September 3, 2000. 
DeFacto2.

———. “Interview with Seraph of XCRYPT.” Courier Weektop 
Scorecard (CwS-118.txt), September 17, 2000. DeFacto2.
LS. “CWS News.” Courier Weektop Scorecard (CWS-80.txt), 

January 1, 1999. DeFacto2.

———. “Lost Shrine Topsite (LS-lost.shrine.1998.05.28.

nfo),” May 28, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

402

bibliography

———. “SCENE NEWS.” Courier Weektop Scorecard (CwS-

102.txt), June 3, 2000. DeFacto2.

———. “SiTE OPS AND TRADERS READ BELOW.” 

Courier Weektop Scorecard (CwS-137.txt), February 3, 2001. 
DeFacto2.

———. “The Last Stand Topsite (LS-the.last.stand.1998.01.22.

nfo),” January 22, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

LTZ. “Less Than Zero Topsite (LTZ-less.than.zero.1997.11.02.
nfo),” November 2, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Lunt, Steven J. “FTP Security Extensions.” Internet Engineering 
Task Force, October 1997. https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2228.
Luther, William J. “Bitcoin and the Future of Digital Payments.” 

The Independent Review 20, no. 3 (Winter 2015/2016): 
397–404. DOI: 10.2139/ssrn.2631314.

LW. “The Lost World Topsite (LW-the.lost.world.1997.10.25.

nfo),” October 25, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

LXL. “Linux Unleashed Topsite (LXL-linux.

unleashed.1999.06.29.nfo),” June 29, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

LYNX. “Lynx Topsite (LYNX-lynx.1997.10.08.nfo),” October 8, 
1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

MacLellan, Rory. “Far-Right Appropriations of the Medieval 
Military Orders.” The Mediaeval Journal 9, no. 1 (2019): 
175–98. DOI: 10.1484/J.TMJ.5.119916.

MAD. “Mutually Assured Destruction Topsite (MAD-

mutually.assured.destruction.1999.01.29.nfo),” January 29, 
1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

Madrigal, Alexis C. “The Lost Ancestors of ASCII Art.” The 
Atlantic, January 30, 2014. https://www.theatlantic.com/
technology/archive/2014/01/the-lost-ancestors-of-ascii-
art/283445/.

 403

warez

Maher, Jimmy. “A Pirate’s Life for Me, Part 2: The Scene.” The 
Digital Antiquarian, January 1, 2016. https://www.filfre.
net/2016/01/a-pirates-life-for-me-part-2-the-scene/.
———. The Future Was Here: The Commodore Amiga. 

Cambridge: MIT Press, 2012.

Manjoo, Farhad. “Were DrinkOrDie Raids Overkill?” Wired, 
December 13, 2001. https://www.wired.com/2001/12/were-
drinkordie-raids-overkill/.

MantiCore. “AW: SQL scannen lohnt sich das noch?” raid.rush, 
May 3, 2010. https://raidrush.net/threads/sql-scannen-
lohnt-sich-das-noch.711040/.

Margolin, James, and Nicholas Biase. “Acting US Attorney 

Announces Federal Charges and International Operation 
To Dismantle Online Piracy Group.” US Department of 
Justice, August 26, 2020. https://www.justice.gov/usao-sdny/
pr/acting-us-attorney-announces-federal-charges-and-
international-operation-dismantle-0.

Marshall, Lee. “For and Against the Record Industry: An 
Introduction to Bootleg Collectors and Tape Traders.” 
Popular Music 22, no. 1 (2003): 57–72. DOI: 10.1017/
S0261143003003040.

Marsio, Leena. “Demoscene, Musical Saw Playing and 

Horsemanship of the Roma – 12 New Elements Inscribed 
on the National Inventory of Living Heritage.” Museovirasto, 
September 4, 2020. https://www.museovirasto.fi/en/articles/
demoskene-sahansoitto-ja-romanien-hevostaidot-elavan-
perinnon-kansalliseen-luetteloon-12-uutta-kohdetta.

Martin, John D. “Piracy, Public Access, and Preservation: An 
Exploration of Sustainable Accessibility in a Public Torrent 
Index.” Proceedings of the Association for Information 
Science and Technology 53, no. 1 (2016): 1–6. DOI: 10.1002/
pra2.2016.14505301123.

Marx, Karl. Capital: A Critique of Political Economy. Translated 
by Ben Fowkes, 1–146. Vol. 1. London: Penguin Books, 1992.

Maxwell, Andy. “Alleged SPARKS Member ‘Raid’ Pleads Not 

Guilty to Piracy Charges.” TorrentFreak, September 8, 2020. 

404

bibliography

https://torrentfreak.com/alleged-sparks-member-raid-
pleads-not-guilty-to-piracy-charges-200908/.

———. “Inside Yesterday’s European Warez Piracy Raids.” 

TorrentFreak, September 8, 2010. https://torrentfreak.com/
inside-yesterdays-european-warez-piracy-raids-100908/.
———. “New ‘Scene’ Security Notice: ‘SPARKS’ Piracy Raids 
Busted Dozens of Sites.” TorrentFreak, September 1, 2020. 
https://torrentfreak.com/new-scene-security-notice-sparks-
piracy-raids-busted-dozens-of-sites-200901/.

———. “Police in File-Sharing Raids Across Europe, 

WikiLeaks Host Targeted.” TorrentFreak, September 7, 2010. 
https://torrentfreak.com/police-in-file-sharing-raids-across-
europe-wikileaks-host-targeted-100907/.

———. “SPARKS Piracy Busts: Facts, Rumors & Fear Point to 
Something Huge.” TorrentFreak, August 27, 2020. https://
torrentfreak.com/sparks-piracy-busts-facts-rumors-fear-
point-to-something-huge-200827/.

———. “The Scene: A Stress Headache That Most Pirates Can 
Do Without.” TorrentFreak, September 6, 2020. https://
torrentfreak.com/the-scene-a-stress-headache-that-most-
pirates-can-do-without-200906/.

———. “US Indictments and Raids of Piracy Group Members 
in ‘The Scene’ Throw Top-Tier Piracy World into Chaos.” 
TorrentFreak, August 26, 2020. https://torrentfreak.com/us-
indictments-and-raids-of-piracy-group-members-in-the-
scene-throw-top-tier-piracy-world-into-chaos-200826/.

MBZ. “Menzoberranzan Topsite (MBZ-

menzoberranzan.1999.01.03.nfo),” January 3, 1999. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

———. “Menzoberranzan Topsite (MBZ-

menzoberranzan.1999.02.12.nfo),” February 12, 1999. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

———. “Menzoberranzan Topsite (MBZ-menzoberranzan.
XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 405

warez

McArthur, J.A. “Digital Subculture: A Geek Meaning of Style.” 
Journal of Communication Inquiry 33, no. 1 (January 2009): 
58–70. DOI: 10.1177/0196859908325676.

McCain, Jessica, Brittany Gentile, and W. Keith Campbell. 
“A Psychological Exploration of Engagement in Geek 
Culture.” PLOS ONE 10, no. 11 (2015). DOI: 10.1371/journal.
pone.0142200.

McCandless, David. “Warez Wars.” Wired, April 1, 1997. https://

www.wired.com/1997/04/ff-warez/.

McGonigal, Jane. “‘This Is Not a Game’: Immersive 

Aesthetics and Collective Play.” In Melbourne DAC 2003 
Streamingworlds Conference Proceedings. Melbourne: Royal 
Melbourne Institute of Technology University, 2003.

McNultey, Paul J. “Warez Leader Sentenced to 46 Months.” US 
Department of Justice, May 17, 2002. https://www.justice.
gov/archive/criminal/cybercrime/press-releases/2002/
sankusSent.htm.

MDK. “Murder Death Kill Topsite (MDK-murder.death.

kill.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Meese, James. “The Pirate Imaginary and the Potential of 

the Authorial Pirate.” In Piracy: Leakages from Modernity, 
edited by Martin Fredriksson and James Arvanitakis, 19–38. 
Sacramento: Litwin Books, 2014.

MERC. “Mercure Topsite (MERC-mercure.1998.01.16.nfo),” 
January 16, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Mercure Topsite (MERC-mercure.1999.02.21.nfo),” 
February 21, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

MF. “Magnetic Fields Topsite (MF-magnetic.fields.2000.06.05.
nfo),” June 5, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

MFT. “Manifest Topsite (MFT-manifest.1997.10.21.nfo),” 

October 21, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

406

bibliography

MG. “Midgaard Topsite (MG-midgaard.2000.08.22.nfo),” 
August 22, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

MH. “Madhaus Topsite (MH-madhaus.1997.09.22.nfo),” 

September 22, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

MI. “Monkey Island Topsite (MI-monkey.island.1998.02.06.

nfo),” February 6, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

MIH. “Made in Heaven Topsite (MIH-made.

in.heaven.1999.05.21.nfo),” May 21, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Miracle. “USA Retail Shipment Speeds (USA shops and speed.

txt),” n.d. DeFacto2.

Mitchell, David. Utopia Avenue. London: Sceptre, 2020.
MM. “Major Malfunction Topsite (MM-major.

malfunction.1999.07.29.nfo),” July 29, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
———. “Mental Meltdown Topsite (MM-mental.

meltdown.1997.04.26.nfo),” April 26, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

MNS. “Midnight Sun Topsite (MNS-midnight.sun.1999.01.23.

nfo),” January 23, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

MO. “Mount Olympus Topsite (MO-mount.

olympus.1998.10.23.nfo),” October 23, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Montola, Markus, and Jaakko Stenros. “Case B: The Beast.” 
In Markus Montola, Jaakko Stenros, and Annika Wærn, 
Pervasive Games: Theory and Design, 25–30. Boston: Morgan 
Kaufmann Publishers, 2009.

Montola, Markus, Jaakko Stenros, and Annika Wærn. Pervasive 
Games: Theory and Design. Amsterdam: Morgan Kaufmann, 
2009.

Moore, Samuel. “Common Struggles: Policy-Based vs. Scholar-
Led Approaches to Open Access in the Humanities.” PhD 

 407

warez

diss., King’s College London, 2019. https://hcommons.org/
deposits/item/hc:24135/.

Moore, Samuel, Cameron Neylon, Martin Paul Eve, Daniel 
Paul O’Donnell, and Damian Pattinson. “‘Excellence 
R Us’: University Research and the Fetishisation of 
Excellence.” Palgrave Communications 3 (2017). DOI: 10.1057/
palcomms.2016.105. https://www.nature.com/articles/
palcomms2016105.

Morris, Jeremy Wade. Selling Digital Music, Formatting Culture. 

Berkeley: University of California Press, 2015.

Morselli, Carlo, and Tom Vander Beken. “Opportunistic 

Structures of Organized Crime.” In The Oxford Handbook of 
Organized Crime, edited by Letizia Paoli, 288–302. Oxford: 
Oxford University Press, 2014.

Morselli, Carlo, Mathilde Turcotte, and Valentina Tenti. “The 

Mobility of Criminal Groups.” Global Crime 12, no. 3 (2011): 
165–88. DOI: 10.1080/17440572.2011.589593.

MOS. “Mos Eisley Topsite (MOS-mos.eisley.1998.03.25.nfo),” 
March 25, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Moshirnia, Andrew V. “Giant Pink Scorpions: Fighting Piracy 

with Novel Digital Rights Management Technology.” DePaul 
Journal of Art, Technology & Intellectual Property Law 23, no. 
1 (2012): 1–67. https://ssrn.com/abstract=3031273.

MRG. “Mirage Topsite (MRG-mirage.1997.08.03.nfo),” August 
3, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

MS. “Mile Stone Topsite (MS-mile.stone.1997.07.04.nfo),” July 
4, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

MSV. “Moonshine Vision Topsite (MSV-moonshine.

vision.1998.08.26.nfo),” August 26, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Muggleton, David, and Rupert Weinzierl. The Post-Subcultures 

Reader. New York: Berg, 2003.

408

bibliography

MW. “Mist World Topsite (MW-mist.world.1998.06.04.

nfo),” June 4, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

MXP. “Maximum Power Topsite (MXP-maximum.

power.1998.02.06.nfo),” February 6, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Mytton, David. “Cloudflare, Free Speech and the Rule of Law.” 
David Mytton, August 15, 2019. https://davidmytton.blog/
cloudflare-free-speech-and-the-rule-of-law/.

Nash, Jennifer C. The Black Body in Ecstasy: Reading Race, 

Reading Pornography. Durham: Duke University Press, 2014.

Naylor, R.T. “Towards a General Theory of Profit-Driven 

Crimes.” The British Journal of Criminology 43, no. 1 (2003): 
81–101. https://www.jstor.org/stable/23638918.

NBM. “Niobium Topsite (NBM-niobium.1999.02.14.nfo),” 
February 14, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

NCT. “Nocturne Topsite (NCT-nocturne.1998.12.06.nfo),” 
December 6, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

ndetroit. “ndetroit’s sites and stats section.” Netmonkey Weekly 

Report (nwr47.txt), May 11, 1999. DeFacto2.

———. “The Scene News.” Netmonkey Weekly Report (nwr55.

txt), August 2, 1999. DeFacto2.

———. “The Truth about GLFTPD.” Netmonkey Weekly 

Report (nwr39.txt), March 17, 1999. DeFacto2.

ndetroit and lester. “Interview with metaray.” Netmonkey 

Weekly Report (nwr56.txt), September 8, 1999. DeFacto2.

NEI. “New Evil Incarnate Topsite (NEI-new.evil.

incarnate.1997.11.29.nfo),” November 29, 1997. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
Newman, James. Videogames. London: Routledge, 2013.
NF. “Near Future Topsite (NF-near.future.1999.08.26.nfo),” 
August 26, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 409

warez

———. “Near Future Topsite (NF-near.future.1999.11.08.nfo),” 
November 8, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

NF2K. “Near Future 2000 Topsite (NF2K-near.

future.2000.10.12.nfo),” October 12, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

NGS. “Neon Genesis Topsite (NGS-neon.genesis.XXXX.

XX.00.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

NHL. “Nihil Topsite (NHL-nihil.1997.03.02.nfo),” March 2, 

1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

NKS. “Narkos Topsite (NKS-narkos.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

NMS. “Nemesis Topsite (NMS-nemesis.1998.09.08.nfo),” 

September 8, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Noble, Safiya Umoja. Algorithms of Oppression: How Search 

Engines Reinforce Racism. New York: New York University 
Press, 2018.

NOS. “Nos Topsite (NOS-nos.1998.05.17.nfo),” May 17, 1998. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

NPT. “Noptarus Topsite (NPT-noptarus.1999.02.03.nfo),” 
February 3, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

NUD. “Nuclear Dust Topsite (NUD-nuclear.dust.2000.08.22.

nfo),” August 22, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Nuclear Dust Topsite (NUD-nuclear.dust.XXXX.
XX.01.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

NXS. “Nexus Topsite (NXS-nexus.1998.05.07.nfo),” May 7, 

1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

410

bibliography

O5. “Orbit Five Topsite (O5-orbit.five.1997.02.14.nfo),” February 
14, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

Oberholzer-Gee, Felix, and Koleman Strumpf. “File Sharing 

and Copyright.” Innovation Policy and the Economy 10, no. 1 
(2010): 19–55. DOI: 10.1086/605852.

Oliveira, Thaiane Moreira de. “‘Ingress’: A Restructuring of the 
ARG or a New Genre? An Ethnography of Enlightened and 
Resistance Factions in Brazil.” In Alternate Reality Games 
and the Cusp of Digital Gameplay, edited by Antero Garcia 
and Greg Niemeyer, 288–310. New York City: Bloomsbury 
Academic, 2017.

OM. “Omerta Topsite (OM-omerta.1999.12.31.nfo),” December 
31, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Operation Mindcrime Topsite (OM-operation.

mindcrime.1997.12.29.nfo),” December 29, 1997. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

ON. “Origin Topsite (ON-origin.1997.12.04.nfo),” December 4, 
1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

OON. “Outskirts of Nowhere Topsite (OON-outskirts.

of.nowhere.1998.12.15.nfo),” December 15, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Osborn, Don. African Languages in a Digital Age: Challenges 

and Opportunities for Indigenous Language Computing. Cape 
Town: HSRC Press, 2010.

Osipovich, Alexander. “High-Frequency Traders Push Closer 
to Light Speed with Cutting-Edge Cables.” Wall Street 
Journal, December 15, 2020. https://www.wsj.com/articles/
high-frequency-traders-push-closer-to-light-speed-with-
cutting-edge-cables-11608028200.

OT. “Obscure Transmissions Topsite (OT-obscure.

transmissions.1997.12.07.nfo),” December 7, 1997. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 411

warez

OU. “Origin Underground Topsite (OU-origin.

underground.1997.10.25.nfo),” October 25, 1997. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Origin Underground Topsite (OU-origin.

underground.1998.01.13.nfo),” January 13, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

OX. “Oxide Topsite (OX-oxide.1997.07.15.nfo),” July 15, 1997. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

P1. “Pier One Imports Topsite (P1-pier.one.imports.1996.10.29.

nfo),” October 29, 1996. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Paoli, Letizia. “Introduction.” In The Oxford Handbook of 
Organized Crime, edited by Letizia Paoli, 1–10. Oxford: 
Oxford University Press, 2014.

Paoli, Letizia, and Tom Vander Beken. “Organized Crime: A 

Contested Concept.” In The Oxford Handbook of Organized 
Crime, edited by Letizia Paoli, 13–31. Oxford: Oxford 
University Press, 2014.

PB. “Point Break Topsite (PB-point.break.1998.12.12.nfo),” 

December 12, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

PBOX. “Pandora’s Box Topsite (PBOX-pandoras.

box.1999.02.15.nfo),” February 15, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
———. “Pandora’s Box Topsite (PBOX-pandoras.

box.2000.07.23.nfo),” July 23, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

PC. “Pirate’s Cove Topsite (PC-pirates.cove.1997.03.02.nfo),” 
March 2, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

PD. “Plastik Dreams Topsite (PD-plastik.dreams.1996.11.12.
nfo),” November 12, 1996. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Playboys Dreams Topsite (PD-playboys.

dream.1998.10.25.nfo),” October 25, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

412

bibliography

———. “Playboys Dreams Topsite (PD-playboys.

dream.1999.10.21.nfo),” October 21, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Psychadelic Dreams Topsite (PD-psychadelic.

dreams.1997.09.30.nfo),” September 30, 1997. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
PDX. “Paradox Topsite (PDX-paradox.1999.01.20.nfo),” 

January 20, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Paradox Topsite (PDX-paradox.1999.02.26.nfo),” 
February 26, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Pennell, C.R. “Introduction.” In Bandits at Sea: A Pirates 

Reader, edited by C.R. Pennell, 2–24. New York: New York 
University Press, 2001.

Perea, Manuel, Jon Andoni Duñabeitia, and Manuel 

Carreiras. “R34D1NG W0RD5 W1TH NUMB3R5.” Journal 
of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and 
Performance 34, no. 1 (2008): 237–41. DOI: 10.1037/0096-
1523.34.1.237.

Perice, Glen A. “Rumors and Politics in Haiti.” Anthropological 

Quarterly 70, no. 1 (January 1997): 1–10. DOI: 
10.2307/3317797.

Perloff, Marjorie. Radical Artifice: Writing Poetry in the Age of 

Media. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1991.
———. The Poetics of Indeterminacy: Rimbaud to Cage. 

Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1981.

———. Unoriginal Genius: Poetry by Other Means in the New 

Century. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2010.

PG. “Project Genocide Topsite (PG-project.

genocide.1998.07.07.nfo),” July 7, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
———. “Project Genocide Topsite (PG-project.

genocide.1998.08.21.nfo),” August 21, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 413

warez

PH. “Pirates’ Hideout Topsite (PH-pirates.hideout.XXXX.
XX.00.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Philip, Kavita. “What Is a Technological Author? The Pirate 

Function and Intellectual Property.” Postcolonial Studies 8, 
no. 2 (2005): 199–218. DOI: 10.1080/13688790500153596.
PL. “Paradise Lost Topsite (PL-paradise.lost.1997.11.25.nfo),” 
November 25, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Pirate Lair Topsite (PL-pirate.lair.1999.08.03.nfo),” 
August 3, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Primary Link Topsite (PL-primary.link.1996.11.03.
nfo),” November 3, 1996. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Primary Link Topsite (PL-primary.link.1997.03.02.

nfo),” March 2, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Primary Link Topsite (PL-primary.link.1997.12.19.
nfo),” December 19, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

PM. “Prime Mover Topsite (PM-prime.mover.1998.05.10.

nfo),” May 10, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Prime Mover Topsite (PM-prime.mover.1998.08.13.

nfo),” August 13, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Pogue, David. “Some Warez over the Rainbow.” MacWorld, 

October 1997. https://cdn.preterhuman.net/texts/
computing/macintosh/Macintosh.txt.

Polgár, Tamás. Freax: The Brief History of the Computer 

Demoscene. Winnenden: CWS-Verlag, 2008.

Poort, Joost, Jorna Leenheer, Jeroen van der Ham, and 
Cosmin Dumitru. “Baywatch: Two Approaches to 
Measure the Effects of Blocking Access to The Pirate Bay.” 
Telecommunications Policy 38, no. 4 (May 2014): 383–92. 
DOI: 10.1016/j.telpol.2013.12.008.

414

bibliography

PP. “Pelos Portal Topsite (PP-pelos.portal.1998.04.22.nfo),” 
April 22, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Piper’s Pit Topsite (PP-pipers.pit.1999.10.21.nfo),” 
October 21, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Pussy Power Topsite (PP-pussy.power.XXXX.XX.00.
nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

PR. “Phoenix Rising Topsite (PR-phoenix.rising.1999.10.12.
nfo),” October 12, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Prince, Brian. “Tracking the Crackers – A Look at Software 
Piracy.” EWEEK, November 14, 2008. https://www.eweek.
com/security/tracking-the-crackers-a-look-at-software-
piracy.

PS. “Parasite Topsite (PS-parasite.1998.03.11.nfo),” March 11, 

1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

———. “Progressive Topsite (PS-progressive.1997.03.11.

nfo),” March 11, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

PSR. “Possible Reality Topsite (PSR-possible.reality.XXXX.
XX.00.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

PST. “Prosperity Topsite (PST-prosperity.1999.07.25.nfo),” July 
25, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

PT. “Pzykotik Thoughts Topsite (PT-pzykotik.

thoughts.1997.05.19.nfo),” May 19, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

“Pub-Crackin 101.” PC-FXP. http://pc-fxp.tripod.com/pc101.

htm.

PWH. “Pre Whore House Topsite (PWH-pre.whore.

house.2000.09.01.nfo),” September 1, 2000. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 415

warez

QC. “QuadCon Topsite (QC-quadcon.1998.02.09.nfo),” 

February 9, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

QR. “Quantum Reality Topsite (QR-quantum.reality.1998.05.23.
nfo),” May 23, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

RA. “Restricted Area Topsite (RA-restricted.area.1999.06.13.
nfo),” June 13, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Raftery, Miriam. “San Diego GOP Chairman Co-Founded 

International Piracy Ring.” The Raw Story, April 29, 2009. 
Rancière, Jacques. The Politics of Aesthetics: The Distribution 
of the Sensible. Edited and translated by Gabriel Rockhill. 
London: Bloomsbury Academic, 2018.

RAY. “Rebellion Authority Topsite (RAY-rebellion.

authority.1999.03.18.nfo),” March 18, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Raymond, Eric S. The Cathedral and the Bazaar: Musings on 
Linux and Open Source by an Accidental Revolutionary. 
Cambridge: O’Reilly Media, 2001.

RBL. “The Rebellion Topsite (RBL-the.rebellion.1997.02.19.
nfo),” February 19, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

RC. “Rand0m Cha0s Topsite (RC-random.chaos.1997.09.05.
nfo),” September 5, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Readings, Bill. The University in Ruins. Cambridge: Harvard 

University Press, 1996.

Rebel Chicken. “That Wasn’t You?” Reality Check Network 

(RCN-20.txt), 1996. DeFacto2.

Rehn, Alf. “Electronic Potlatch: A Study on New Technologies 

and Primitive Economic Behaviors.” PhD diss., Royal 
Institute of Technology, Stockholm, 2001.

———. Ordered Misbehavior: The Structuring of an Illegal 

Endeavor. Stockholm: Royal Institute of Technology, 2003. 

416

bibliography

———. “The Politics of Contraband: The Honor Economies of 
the Warez Scene.” The Journal of Socio-Economics 33, no. 3 
(July 2004): 359–74. DOI: 10.1016/j.socec.2003.12.027.
RELIC. “The Relic Topsite (RELIC-the.relic.1997.12.29.nfo),” 
December 29, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Reunanen, Markku. “Computer Demos—What Makes Them 

Tick?” Master’s thesis, Aalto University, 2010.
Reunanen, Markku, Patryk Wasiak, and Daniel Botz. 

“Crack Intros: Piracy, Creativity and Communication.” 
International Journal of Communication 9 (2015): 798–817. 
https://ijoc.org/index.php/ijoc/article/view/3731/.

RFLUX. “Reality Flux Topsite (RFLUX-reality.flux.1998.03.03.
nfo),” March 3, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Reality Flux Topsite (RFLUX-reality.flux.1998.07.03.
nfo),” July 3, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

RH. “Ratz Hole Topsite (RH-ratzhole.1999.08.14.nfo),” August 
14, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

Rimini, Francesca da, and Jonathan Marshall. “Piracy Is 

Normal, Piracy Is Boring: Systemic Disruption as Everyday 
Life.” In Piracy: Leakages from Modernity, edited by Martin 
Fredriksson and James Arvanitakis, 323–44. Sacramento: 
Litwin Books, 2014.

RiSC. “Ethics (risc.ethics.txt),” n.d. DeFacto2.
———. “Guidelines (risc.guidelines.txt),” n.d. DeFacto2.
ROC. “Realms of Chaos Topsite (ROC-realms.

of.chaos.1998.11.23.nfo),” November 23, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
Rodman, Gilbert B., and Cheyanne Vanderdonckt. “Music 
for Nothing or, I Want My MP3: The Regulation and 
Recirculation of Affect.” Cultural Studies 20, nos. 2–3 
(2006): 245–61. DOI: 10.1080/09502380500495734.

Roman. “Q&A with DeFacto2: The NFO File,” January 22, 2013. 

DeFacto2. https://defacto2.net/file/detail/ac2b81.

 417

warez

Rosenblat, Alex. Uberland: How Algorithms Are Rewriting the 

Rules of Work. Berkeley: University of California Press, 2018.

Rosnow, Ralph L., and Gary A. Fine. Rumor and Gossip: The 
Social Psychology of Hearsay. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 1976.

RP. “Relentless Pipeline Topsite (RP-relentless.

pipeline.1998.10.02.nfo),” October 2, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

RUHEBITTE. “The Truth About Warez Seller Since aka Kartus 
aka Styler (The.truth.about.warez.seller.Since.aka.Kaktus.
aka.Styler-RUHEBITTE),” c.  -2010 2006. DeFacto2, warez-
scene-notices-2006-2010.

Ryason55. “DRM Scorpions,” May 11, 2014. https://

steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=259074771
&searchtext=.

RZ. “RZ Soft Topsite (RZ-rzsoft.1997.12.22.nfo),” December 22, 
1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

SA. “Secured Area Topsite (SA-secured.area.1997.02.22.nfo),” 
February 22, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

SAD. “Satan’s Dome Topsite (SAD-satans.dome.1998.07.29.

nfo),” July 29, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Satan’s Dome Topsite (SAD-satans.dome.1998.08.30.

nfo),” August 30, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Saint Tok. “Interview with The Crazy Little Punk.” DeFacto2 

(df2-02.txt), February 1997. DeFacto2.

SANI. “Sanitarium Topsite (SANI-sanitarium.1997.06.13.

nfo),” June 13, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Sanitarium Topsite (SANI-sanitarium.1998.01.08.

nfo),” January 8, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

SB. “San Bruno Topsite (SB-san.bruno.1998.07.01.nfo),” July 1, 
1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

418

bibliography

SBC. “San Bruno Club Topsite (SBC-san.bruno.club.1999.12.27.

nfo),” December 27, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “San Bruno Club Topsite (SBC-san.bruno.

club.2000.02.26.nfo),” February 26, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Scarfone, Karen, Wayne Jansen, and Miles Tracy. Guide to 

General Server Security: Recommendations of the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology. Gaithersburg: 
National Institute of Standards and Technology, 2008.
Schwartz, Hillel. Culture of the Copy: Striking Likenesses, 
Unreasonable Facsimiles. New York: Zone Books, 2014.
Sciannamblo, Mariacristina. “The Internet between Politics 
and the Political: The Birth of the Pirate Party.” In Piracy: 
Leakages from Modernity, edited by Martin Fredriksson and 
James Arvanitakis, 177–94. Sacramento: Litwin Books, 2014.
SD. “Solid Disruption Topsite (SD-solid.disruption.1998.06.27.
nfo),” June 27, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Surface Defect Topsite (SD-surface.defect.1998.06.06.
nfo),” June 6, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Surface Defect Topsite (SD-surface.defect.1998.09.25.

nfo),” September 25, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

SDK. “The Sandokan’s Dome Topsite (SDK-the.sandokans.

dome.1998.02.25.nfo),” February 25, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

SE. “Savage Exile Topsite (SE-savage.exile.1997.10.25.nfo),” 
October 25, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Sonic Empire Topsite (SE-sonic.empire.1998.01.03.

nfo),” January 3, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Seeborg, Richard. “United States of America v. Chirayu Patel, 
Aka Nebula, Aka Nabwrk, Aka Aluben, Aka Notneb, Aka 
Aluben: Warrant for Arrest,” June 28, 2005.

 419

warez

Seppala, Timothy J. “‘The Sims 4’ Turns into a Pixelated Mess 
If You Pirate It.” Engadget, September 5, 2014. https://www.
engadget.com/2014-09-05-sims-4-pirate-pixelation.html.
Seuss, Geisel Theodor. If I Ran the Zoo. New York: Random 

House for Young Readers, 1950.

Sewell, Amanda. “How Copyright Affected the Musical Style 
and Critical Reception of Sample-Based Hip-Hop.” Journal 
of Popular Music Studies 26, nos. 2–3 (2014): 295–320. DOI: 
10.1111/jpms.12078.

SEX. “Silicon Exchange Topsite (SEX-silicon.

exchange.1999.05.24.nfo),” May 24, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

SF. “Springfield Topsite (SF-springfield.1997.04.06.nfo),” April 
6, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

SG. “Shadow Gate Topsite (SG-shadow.gate.1999.04.21.nfo),” 

April 21, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Sharma, Amita, and J.W. August. “Video Resurfaces Featuring 
Images of Hitler and Local GOP Party Chair Tony Krvaric.” 
KPBS, August 21, 2020. https://www.kpbs.org/news/2020/
aug/21/video-surfaces-images-hitler-and-tony-krvaric/.

SheepNet, LocalNet, OneNET, Nuclear, ZoNeNET, 

FRENCHNET, Gotmilk, et al. “Nuke Council Rules 
(nfo_2008_NC.nfo).” Scenerules.org, November 8, 2008. 
scenerules.org.

Shields, David. Reality Hunger: A Manifesto. London: Hamish 

Hamilton, 2011.

SHK. “Shike Topsite (SHK-shike.1997.05.28.nfo),” May 28, 

1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

Sihvonen, Tanja. Players Unleashed!: Modding The Sims and 

the Culture of Gaming. Amsterdam: Amsterdam University 
Press, 2011.

Silvast, Antti, and Markku Reunanen. “Multiple Users, Diverse 
Users: Appropriation of Personal Computers by Demoscene 
Hackers.” In Hacking Europe: From Computer Cultures to 

420

bibliography

Demoscenes, edited by Gerard Alberts, 151–63. New York: 
Springer, 2014.

Simpson, Penny M., Debasish Banerjee, and Claude L. 

Simpson. “Softlifting: A Model of Motivating Factors.” 
Journal of Business Ethics 13, no. 6 (1994): 431–38. DOI: 
10.1007/BF00881451.

skimp. “Interview with glimerman of RiSC.” Courier Weektop 

Scorecard (CwS-137.txt), February 3, 2001. DeFacto2.
———. “Interview with Redbone of RTS.” Courier Weektop 
Scorecard (CwS-130.txt), December 16, 2000. DeFacto2.
Skowronek, Russell K. “X Marks the Spot – Or Does It?” In X 
Marks the Spot: The Archaeology of Piracy, edited by Russell 
K. Skowronek and Charles R. Ewen, 282–98. Gainesville: 
University Press of Florida, 2006.

SL. “Sand Land Topsite (SL-sand.land.1997.10.29.nfo),” October 
29, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

Slowinska, Maria A. Art/Commerce: The Convergence of 

Art and Marketing in Contemporary Culture. Bielefeld: 
Transcript Verlag, 2014.

SLR. “The Cellar Topsite (SLR-the.cellar.1998.09.07.nfo),” 

September 7, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Cellar Topsite (SLR-the.cellar.1998.11.08.nfo),” 
November 8, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

SOC. “Socrates Topsite (SOC-socrates.1997.11.12.nfo),” 

November 12, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Sockanathan, Andrew. “Digital Desire and Recorded Music: 

OiNK, Mnemotechnics and the Private BitTorrent 
Architecture.” PhD diss., Goldsmiths, University of London, 
2011.

SOH. “South of Heaven Topsite (SOH-south.

of.heaven.1998.08.27.nfo),” August 27, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 421

warez

Sökefeld, Martin. “Rumours and Politics on the Northern 

Frontier: The British, Pakhtun Wali and Yaghestan.” Modern 
Asian Studies 36, no. 2 (2002): 299–340. DOI: 10.1017/
S0026749X02002020.

Solove, Daniel J. The Future of Reputation: Gossip, Rumor, and 
Privacy on the Internet. New Haven: Yale University Press, 
2007.

Solt, Mary Ellen, ed. Concrete Poetry: A World View. 
Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1970.

Sonnad, Nikhil. “A Eulogy for ‘What.CD’, the Greatest Music 

Collection in the History of the World — Until It Vanished.” 
Quartz, November 18, 2016. https://qz.com/840661/what-
cd-is-gone-a-eulogy-for-the-greatest-music-collection-in-
the-world/.

SP. “Secret Paradise Topsite (SP-secret.paradise.1998.08.30.

nfo),” August 30, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

SPADE. “The Spade Topsite (SPADE-the.spade.1999.01.23.nfo),” 

January 23, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

SQB. “Could a Hard Drive Actually Have Been Erased as 

Described in ‘Cryptonomicon’?” Physics Stack Exchange, 
May 1, 2014. https://physics.stackexchange.com/
questions/110870/could-a-hard-drive-actually-have-been-
erased-as-described-in-cryptonomicon.

SR. “Shattered Reality Topsite (SR-shattered.reality.1998.10.05.

nfo),” October 5, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

SS. “Silly Symphonies Topsite (SS-silly.symphonies.1998.05.13.
nfo),” May 13, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Stahl, Geoff. “Tastefully Renovating Subcultural Theory: 

Making Space for a New Model.” In The Post-Subcultures 
Reader, edited by David Muggleton and Rupert Weinzierl, 
27–40. Oxford: Berg, 2003.

422

bibliography

Stallman, Richard. “Did You Say ‘Intellectual Property’? It’s a 

Seductive Mirage.” gnu.org, April 20, 2015. https://www.gnu.
org/philosophy/not-ipr.en.html.

Star, Susan Leigh. “The Ethnography of Infrastructure.” 

American Behavioral Scientist 43, no. 3 (1999): 377–91. DOI: 
10.1177/00027649921955326.

Starkey, David J. “Pirates and Markets.” In Bandits at Sea: A 
Pirates Reader, edited by C.R. Pennell, 107–24. New York: 
New York University Press, 2001.

Stephenson, Neal. Cryptonomicon. New York: Random House, 

2012.

Sterling, Bruce. The Hacker Crackdown: Law and Disorder on 
the Electronic Frontier. New York: Bantam Books, 1992.
Sterne, Jonathan. MP3: The Meaning of a Format. Durham: 

Duke University Press, 2012.

STH. “Stairway to Heaven Topsite (STH-stairway.

to.heaven.1997.02.16.nfo),” February 16, 1997. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
———. “Stairway to Heaven Topsite (STH-stairway.

to.heaven.1998.03.04.nfo),” March 4, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Stairway to Heaven Topsite (STH-stairway.

to.heaven.1999.08.27.nfo),” August 27, 1999. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
Strangelove, Michael. The Empire of Mind: Digital Piracy 

and the Anti-Capitalist Movement. Toronto: University of 
Toronto Press, 2005.

Straw, Will. “Systems of Articulation, Logics of 

Change: Communities and Scenes in Popular 
Music.” Cultural Studies 5, no. 3 (1991): 368–88. DOI: 
10.1080/09502389100490311.

Suber, Peter. Open Access. Cambridge: MIT Press, 2012.
Sugarbaker, Mike. “What Is a Geek?” Gazebo (The Journal of 
Geek Culture), 1998. http://www.gibberish.com/gazebo/
articles/geek3.html.

 423

warez

SUN. “Sun Topsite (SUN-sun.1999.11.09.nfo),” November 9, 

1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

SW. “Spice World Topsite (SW-spice.world.1998.06.21.nfo),” 

June 21, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

SYN. “Syn City Topsite (SYN-syncity.1996.11.04.nfo),” 

November 4, 1996. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Syn City Topsite (SYN-syncity.1998.08.27.nfo),” 
August 27, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

SZ. “Storm Zone Topsite (SZ-storm.zone.1999.09.17.nfo),” 

September 17, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Szulborski, Dave. This Is Not a Game: A Guide to Alternate 

Reality Gaming. Macungie: New-Fiction Publishing, 2005.

TA. “The Armageddon Topsite (TA-the.

armageddon.1998.08.05.nfo),” August 5, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TAL. “Talinc Topsite (TAL-talinc.1999.12.28.nfo),” December 
28, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

TAR. “The Ancient Ruins Topsite (TAR-the.ancient.

ruins.1998.03.25.nfo),” March 25, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Taylor, Astra. “Serfıng the Net.” The Baffler 2, no. 1 [18] (2010): 

20–26. https://www.jstor.org/stable/43307607.

TBB. “The Black Box Topsite (TBB-the.black.box.1999.05.27.
nfo),” May 27, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TBC and rgba. “elevated (elevated.nfo),” 2009. pouet.net.
TBF. “Tera-Bit-Fit Topsite (TBF-tera.bit.fit.1999.01.15.nfo),” 
January 15, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

424

bibliography

TBL. “Turbulence Topsite (TBL-turbulence.1998.08.11.nfo),” 
August 11, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TBP. “The Bottomless Pit Topsite (TBP-the.bottomless.

pit.1998.07.05.nfo),” July 5, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TBR. “The Boxer Rebellion Topsite (TBR-the.boxer.

rebellion.1997.12.09.nfo),” December 9, 1997. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
———. “The Boxer Rebellion Topsite (TBR-the.boxer.

rebellion.1998.08.23.nfo),” August 23, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TC. “The Center Topsite (TC-the.center.1997.10.24.nfo),” 

October 24, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Trash City Topsite (TC-trash.city.1998.01.23.nfo),” 
January 23, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Trash City Topsite (TC-trash.city.1998.03.02.nfo),” 
March 2, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TCD. “The Corner Deli Topsite (TCD-the.corner.

deli.1998.01.31.nfo),” January 31, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TD. “The Dome Topsite (TD-the.dome.1998.08.31.nfo),” August 
31, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

TDA. “The Digital Afterlife Topsite Ring (TDA-the.digital.

afterlife.1997.01.20.nfo),” January 20, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TDD. “The Dragons Den Topsite (TDD-the.dragons.

den.1997.07.15.nfo),” July 15, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Dragons Den Topsite (TDD-the.dragons.

den.1997.07.17.nfo),” July 17, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 425

warez

TDH. “The Dawg House Topsite (TDH-the.dawg.

house.1997.05.25.nfo),” May 25, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Digital Harm Topsite (TDH-the.digital.

harm.1997.10.25.nfo),” October 25, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TDI. “The Desert Inn Topsite (TDI-the.desert.inn.1999.07.21.
nfo),” July 21, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TDL. “The Dead Land Topsite (TDL-the.dead.lands.1998.05.25.
nfo),” May 25, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TDM. “The Diamond Mine Topsite (TDM-the.diamond.

mine.1997.01.10.nfo),” January 10, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
TDP. “The Dawg Pound Topsite (TDP-the.dawg.

pound.1998.05.02.nfo),” May 2, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Dawg Pound Topsite (TDP-the.dawg.pound.
XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Devil’s Pit Topsite (TDP-the.devils.pit.1999.01.07.
nfo),” January 7, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TDS. “The Dark Site Topsite (TDS-the.dark.site.1997.06.29.

nfo),” June 29, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TDZ. “The Drop Zone Topsite (TDZ-the.drop.zone.1997.11.03.

nfo),” November 3, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TE. “The Enterprise Topsite (TE-the.enterprise.1998.05.13.

nfo),” May 13, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Total Eclipse Topsite (TE-total.eclipse.1998.01.11.

nfo),” January 11, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

426

bibliography

TE3. “The Third Total Eclipse Topsite (TE3-total.eclipse.

three.1999.07.09.nfo),” July 9, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TEC. “The Electric Circus Topsite (TEC-the.electric.

circus.1998.08.27.nfo),” August 27, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TEL. “Trans Electric Light Topsite (TEL-trans.electronic.

light.1997.07.16.nfo),” July 16, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TEMP. “The Temple Topsite (TEMP-the.temple.1997.09.21.
nfo),” September 21, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TEN. “The Ether Net Topsite (TEN-the.ether.net.XXXX.

XX.00.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Tenen, Dennis. Plain Text: The Poetics of Computation. 

Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2017.

Tetzlaff, David. “Yo-Ho-Ho and a Server of Warez.” In The 

World Wide Web and Contemporary Cultural Theory: Magic, 
Metaphor, Power, edited by Andrew Herman and Thomas 
Swiss, 99–126. New York: Routledge, 2000.

TF. “The Flash Topsite (TF-the.flash.1997.01.17.nfo),” January 17, 
1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

TFR. “The Fried Rabbit Topsite (TFR-the.fried.

rabbit.1998.09.09.nfo),” September 9, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TG. “The Gateway Topsite (TG-the.gateway.1999.01.10.nfo),” 
January 10, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Gateway Topsite (TG-the.gateway.XXXX.XX.00.
nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

TH. “The Haven Topsite (TH-the.haven.1998.08.30.nfo),” 
August 30, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 427

warez

Thomas, Douglas. Hacker Culture. Minneapolis: University of 

Minnesota Press, 2002.

———. “Innovation, Piracy and the Ethos of New Media.” 
In The New Media Book, edited by Dan Harries, 82–91. 
London: British Film Institute Publishing, 2004.

Thornton, Sarah. Club Cultures: Music, Media and Subcultural 

Capital. Cambridge: Polity Press, 1995.

TK. “Tragic Kingdom Topsite (TK-tragic.kingdom.1997.06.06.
nfo),” June 6, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Tragic Kingdom Topsite (TK-tragic.

kingdom.1997.06.24.nfo),” June 24, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TLT. “The Toilet Topsite (TLT-the.toilet.1998.12.13.nfo),” 

December 13, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TM. “Terrible Mistake Topsite (TM-terrible.mistake.1999.02.13.

nfo),” February 13, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Matrix Topsite (TM-the.matrix.1999.09.25.nfo),” 
September 25, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TMS. “The Mother Superior Topsite (TMS-the.mother.

superior.1999.02.13.nfo),” February 13, 1999. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TNB. “The Number of the Beast Topsite (TNB-the.number.
of.the.beast.1997.10.21.nfo),” October 21, 1997. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TNF. “The New Forge Topsite (TNF-the.new.forge.1997.06.12.
nfo),” June 12, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TNL. “The Neverland Topsite (TNL-the.neverland.1999.02.12.

nfo),” February 12, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Neverland Topsite (TNL-the.never.

land.1999.04.14.nfo),” April 14, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

428

bibliography

TNT. “The Nympho Temple Topsite (TNT-the.nympho.

temple.1997.07.12.nfo),” July 12, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TO. “Technology Overload Topsite (TO-technology.

overload.1998.02.10.nfo),” February 10, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
———. “Technology Overload Topsite (TO-technology.

overload.1998.02.25.nfo),” February 25, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TonikGin. “IRC XDCC Hacking Exposed.” September 11, 2002. 

http://www.madchat.fr/reseau/IRC_XDCC_Hacking_
Exposed.htm.

TOS. “The Orion Syndicate Topsite (TOS-the.orion.

syndicate.1999.03.29.nfo),” March 29, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Toshkov, Dimiter. “The ‘Global South’ Is a Terrible Term. Don’t 
Use It!” RE-DESIGN, November 11, 2018. http://re-design.
dimiter.eu/?p=969.

TOT. “Temple of Torture Topsite (TOT-temple.

of.torture.1999.04.24.nfo),” April 24, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TP. “The Prophecy Topsite (TP-the.prophecy.1997.08.01.

nfo),” August 1, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Prophecy Topsite (TP-the.prophecy.1998.03.11.

nfo),” March 11, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Prophecy Topsite (TP-the.prophecy.XXXX.
XX.00.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Pyramid Topsite (TP-the.pyramid.1999.12.13.
nfo),” December 13, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Pyramid Topsite (TP-the.pyramid.2000.04.28.

nfo),” April 28, 2000. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 429

warez

TPH. “The Pharmacy Topsite (TPH-the.pharmacy.1998.07.27.
nfo),” July 27, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TR. “The River Topsite (TR-the.river.1997.05.29.nfo),” May 29, 
1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

———. “The Rock Topsite (TR-the.rock.1998.08.14.nfo),” 
August 14, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Rock Topsite (TR-the.rock.1999.03.13.nfo),” 
March 13, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Treverton, Gregory F., Carl Matthies, Karla J. Cunningham, 
Jeremiah Goulka, Greg Ridgeway, and Anny Wong. “The 
Shape of Counterfeiting and the Example of Film Piracy.” In 
Film Piracy, Organized Crime, and Terrorism, 27–38. Santa 
Monica: RAND Corporation, 2009.

TRM. “The Raging Monkey Topsite (TRM-the.raging.

monkey.1997.09.18.nfo),” September 18, 1999. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Rising Sun Topsite (TRS-the.rising.sun.XXXX.
XX.00.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TRS. “The Rising Sun Topsite (TRS-the.rising.sun.1998.01.18.

nfo),” August 18, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TS. “The Site Topsite (TS-the.site.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

———. “The Tombstone Topsite (TS-the.

tombstone.1998.12.24.nfo),” December 24, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TSG. “The Sadistic Granddaughter Topsite (TSG-the.sadistic.
granddaughter.1999.04.20.nfo),” April 20, 1999. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

430

bibliography

TT. “Titty Twister Topsite (TT-titty.twister.1999.03.19.nfo),” 
March 19, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Titty Twister Topsite (TT-titty.twister.1999.12.31.nfo),” 
December 31, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TTD. “The Toxic Dump Topsite (TTD-the.toxic.

dump.1998.02.04.nfo),” February 4, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TUR. “The Unknown Realm Topsite (TUR-the.unknown.
realm.1998.09.16.nfo),” September 16, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
Turner, Fred. “Where the Counterculture Met the New 
Economy: The WELL and the Origins of Virtual 
Community.” Technology and Culture 46, no. 3 (2005): 
485–512. DOI: 10.1353/tech.2005.0154.

TV. “Tar Valon Topsite (TV-tar.valon.1998.09.28.nfo),” August 
28, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Terminal Velocity Topsite (TV-terminal.

velocity.1998.12.27.nfo),” December 27, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Terminal Velocity Topsite (TV-terminal.

velocity.1999.01.29.nfo),” January 29, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TVD. “The Void Topsite (TVD-the.void.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” 
n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

TVP. “The Vanishing Point Topsite (TVP-the.vanishing.

point.1998.09.15.nfo),” September 15, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TWH. “The Wolves House Topsite (TWH-the.wolves.

house.1997.03.21.nfo),” March 21, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Wolves House Topsite (TWH-the.wolves.

house.1998.02.15.nfo),” February 15, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

 431

warez

———. “The Wolves House Topsite (TWH-the.wolves.

house.1999.12.30.nfo),” December 30, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TWI. “Twilight Topsite (TWI-twilight.1999.12.02.nfo),” 

December 2, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Twilight Topsite (TWI-twilight.XXXX.XX.02.nfo),” 
n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

TWL. “The Waste Land Topsite (TWL-the.waste.

land.1997.05.22.nfo),” May 22, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “The Waste Land Topsite (TWL-the.waste.

land.1998.07.29.nfo),” July 29, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

TX. “Terra X Topsite (TX-terra.x.1998.02.14.nfo),” February 14, 
1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

u/shrine. “Charitable Seeding Update: 10 Terabytes and 
900,000 Scientific Books in a Week with Seedbox.Io 
and UltraSeedbox.” Reddit, 2019. https://www.reddit.
com/r/seedboxes/comments/e3yl23/charitable_seeding_
update_10_terabytes_and_900000/.

———. “Library Genesis Project Update: 2.5 Million Books 

Seeded with the World, 80 Million Scientific Articles Next.” 
Reddit, 2020. https://www.reddit.com/r/DataHoarder/
comments/ed9byj/library_genesis_project_update_25_
million_books/.

u/sk0yern. “R/Networking—What Happened to FXP?,” 
Reddit, 2016. https://www.reddit.com/r/networking/
comments/499d1z/what_happened_to_fxp/.
UC. “Unhuman Creations Topsite (UC-unhuman.

creations.1998.08.27.nfo),” August 27, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “United Centre Topsite (UC-united.centre.1998.08.21.
nfo),” August 21, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

432

bibliography

UD. “Unconquered Dreams Topsite (UD-unconquered.

dreams.1999.01.28.nfo),” January 28, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Unconquered Dreams Topsite (UD-unconquered.

dreams.XXXX.XX.01.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

ULS. “Unleashed Topsite (ULS-unleashed.1999.03.26.nfo),” 
March 26, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Unleashed Topsite (ULS-unleashed.1999.09.14.nfo),” 
September 14, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Underwood, Ted. Distant Horizons: Digital Evidence and 

Literary Change. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2019.

United Kingdom Government. Theft Act 1968. https://www.

legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/60/contents.

United States Pirate Party. No Safe Harbor: Essays about Pirate 

Politics. n.p.: CreateSpace, 2012.

UNV. “Universe Topsite (UNV-universe.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” 
n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

Urbas, Gregor. “Cross-National Investigation and Prosecution 
of Intellectual Property Crimes: The Example of ‘Operation 
Buccaneer’.” Crime, Law and Social Change 46, nos. 4–5 
(December 2006): 207–21. DOI: 10.1007/s10611-007-9060-x.
US Attorney’s Office. “Florida Man Who Participated in Online 
Piracy Ring Is Sentenced.” FBI, May 6, 2009. https://www.
fbi.gov/newhaven/press-releases/2009/nh050609a.htm.
US Department of Justice. “60th Felony Conviction Obtained 
in Software Piracy Crackdown ‘Operation Fastlink’,” March 
6, 2009. https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/60th-felony-
conviction-obtained-software-piracy-crackdown-operation-
fastlink.

UT. “Utwente Topsite (UT-utwente.2001.07.17.nfo),” July 17, 

2001. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

 433

warez

UW. “Under World Topsite (UW-under.world.1999.02.15.nfo),” 
February 15, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Under World Topsite (UW-under.world.1999.05.06.
nfo),” May 6, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

V. “Valhalla Topsite (V-valhalla.2000.07.17.nfo),” July 17, 2000. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

V13. “Vault Thirteen Topsite (V13-vault.thirteen.1998.08.01.

nfo),” August 1, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Vaidhyanathan, Siva. Copyrights and Copywrongs: The Rise of 
Intellectual Property and How It Threatens Creativity. New 
York: New York University Press, 2003.

Van der Sar, Ernesto. “Scene Bust Triggered Historic Drop in 
‘Pirate’ Releases.” TorrentFreak, September 4, 2020. https://
torrentfreak.com/scene-bust-triggered-historic-drop-in-
pirate-releases-200904/.

———. “‘What.CD’ Debuts Lightweight Tracker for Its 5 
Million Peers.” TorrentFreak, October 14, 2010. https://
torrentfreak.com/what-cd-debuts-lightweight-tracker-for-
its-5-million-peers-101014/.

Varese, Federico. “Introduction.” In Organized Crime: Critical 
Concepts in Criminology, edited by Federico Varese, 1–35. 
London: Routledge, 2010.

VDR. “Virtual Dimension Research Lake Topsite (VDR-vdr.
lake.1997.05.16.nfo),” May 16, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Virtual Dimension Research Lake Topsite (VDR-vdr.
lake.1997.06.06.nfo),” June 6, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Virtual Dimension Research Lake Topsite (VDR-vdr.
lake.1998.02.09.nfo),” February 9, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

434

bibliography

———. “Virtual Dimension Research Lake Topsite (VDR-vdr.
lake.1998.04.02.nfo),” April 2, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

VERTEX. “1000 Password Plus v1.1.0 (vertex.nfo),” November 

1, 2007. DeFacto2.

VF. “Vision Factory Topsite (VF-vision.factory.1999.03.18.

nfo),” March 18, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

VI. “Violent Illusions Topsite (VI-violent.illusions.1999.06.11.
nfo),” June 11, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Violent Illusions Topsite (VI-violent.

illusions.1999.09.18.nfo),” September 18, 1999. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
Virilio, Paul. The Information Bomb. Translated by Chris 

Turner. London: Verso, 2005.

VL. “Vampyre’s Lair Topsite (VL-vampyres.lair.1997.10.21.nfo),” 
October 21, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

W10. “Warp Factor Ten Topsite (W10-warp.factor.

ten.1997.09.30.nfo),” September 30, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Warp Factor Ten Topsite (W10-warp.factor.

ten.1997.11.07.nfo),” November 7, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Warp Factor Ten Topsite (W10-warp.factor.ten.
XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

WALMART. “WALMART Anti-P2P Statement (tairlthan-

walmart.nfo),” 2007. DeFacto2.

Wasiak, Patryk. “‘Illegal Guys’: A History of Digital Subcultures 
in Europe during the 1980s.” Zeithistorische Forschungen/
Studies in Contemporary History 9 (2012): 257–76. DOI: 
10.14765/ZZF.DOK-1595.

———. “Telephone Networks, BBSes, and the Emergence of 

the Transnational ‘Warez Scene’.” History and Technology 35, 
no. 2 (2019): 177–94. DOI: 10.1080/07341512.2019.1652432.

 435

warez

Waters, Florence. “Film Buyers Fooled by Sony’s ‘The Girl 

with the Dragon Tattoo’ DVD Joke.” The Telegraph, March 
21, 2012. https://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/film/film-
news/9158437/Film-buyers-fooled-by-Sonys-The-Girl-with-
the-Dragon-Tattoo-DVD-joke.html.

Watson, Jeff. “Games Beyond the ARG.” In Alternate Reality 

Games and the Cusp of Digital Gameplay, edited by Antero 
Garcia and Greg Niemeyer, 187–210. New York: Bloomsbury 
Academic, 2017.

WD. “Wet Dreams Topsite (WD-wet.dreams.1999.04.25.

nfo),” April 25, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Wet Dreams Topsite (WD-wet.dreams.1999.05.27.
nfo),” May 27, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

werner. “FLT Busts.” Theisonews, May 2, 2004. https://

www.theisonews.com/forums/index.php/topic,117995.
msg1559546.html?#msg1559546.

WFZ. “Warez Free Zone Topsite (WFZ-warez.free.

zone.1999.07.10.nfo),” July 10, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

WH. “White House Topsite (WH-white.house.1998.03.15.

nfo),” March 15, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “White House Topsite (WH-white.house.1998.09.09.

nfo),” September 9, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.
collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

What.CD. Project Gazelle. GitHub, 2020. https://github.com/

WhatCD/Gazelle.

———. “Project Gazelle: Classes/Rules.Class.php.” GitHub, 
November 8, 2016. https://github.com/WhatCD/Gazelle.

———. “Project Gazelle: Sections/Schedule/Index.php.” 
GitHub, January 8, 2016. https://github.com/WhatCD/
Gazelle.

Williams, J. Patrick. “Authentic Identities: Straightedge 
Subculture, Music, and the Internet.” Journal of 

436

bibliography

Contemporary Ethnography 35, no. 2 (2006): 173–200. DOI: 
10.1177/0891241605285100.

Williams, Raymond. Keywords: A Vocabulary of Culture and 

Society. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014.

Willinsky, John. The Intellectual Properties of Learning: A 
Prehistory from Saint Jerome to John Locke. Chicago: 
University of Chicago Press, 2017.

WL. “Wonder Land Topsite (WL-wonderland.XXXX.XX.00.
nfo),” n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

WND. “The Windmill Topsite (WND-the.windmill.1997.06.19.
nfo),” June 19, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

WOC. “World of Chaos Topsite (WOC-world.

of.chaos.1998.07.05.nfo),” July 5, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.
scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

Woo, Benjamin. “Alpha Nerds: Cultural Intermediaries in a 

Subcultural Scene.” European Journal of Cultural Studies 15, 
no. 5 (2012): 659–76. DOI: 10.1177/1367549412445758.

WOPR. “Wouldn’t You Prefer A Good Game of Chess? Topsite 
(WOPR-wopr.1998.08.14.nfo),” August 14, 1998. DeFacto2, 
warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.
WS. “Warez Sector Topsite (WS-warez.sector.1997.04.17.

nfo),” April 17, 1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

WT. “Watch Tower Topsite (WT-watch.tower.1998.03.02.

nfo),” March 2, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

WTC. “World Trade Center Topsite (WTC-world.trade.

center.1998.07.07.nfo),” July 7, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.
nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

WW. “Wild West Topsite (WW-wild.west.1998.09.04.nfo),” 
September 4, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

XF. “X Filez Topsite (XF-x.filez.1997.07.25.nfo),” July 25, 1997. 
DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

 437

warez

———. “X Filez Topsite (XF-x.filez.1997.08.15.nfo),” August 15, 
1997. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

XNS. “Xenosis Topsite (XNS-xenosis.1998.05.18.nfo),” May 18, 
1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

———. “Xenosis Topsite (XNS-xenosis.1998.06.10.nfo),” June 
10, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

XQZ. “Xquizit Topsite (XQZ-xquizit.1998.03.25.nfo),” March 
25, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

———. “Xquizit Topsite (XQZ-xquizit.1999.07.24.nfo),” July 
24, 1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

XZONE. “X Zone Topsite (XZONE-x.zone.1998.03.01.nfo),” 
March 1, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.
v1.0.24351.shroo.ms.zip.

———. “X Zone Topsite (XZONE-x.zone.XXXX.XX.00.nfo),” 
n.d. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

Yglesias, Matthew. “Piracy Is a Form of Theft, and Copyright 

Infringement Is Neither.” Slate Magazine, December 15, 2011. 
https://slate.com/business/2011/12/piracy-is-a-form-of-theft-
and-copyright-infringement-is-neither.html.

ZEUS. “Zeus Topsite (ZEUS-zeus.1998.11.20.nfo),” November 
20, 1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.
shroo.ms.zip.

ZL. “Z Land Topsite (ZL-zland.1998.12.02.nfo),” December 2, 

1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

ZLA. “Zilla Topsite (ZLA-zilla.1998.08.09.nfo),” August 9, 

1998. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

———. “Zilla Topsite (ZLA-zilla.1999.02.17.nfo),” February 17, 
1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

438

———. “Zilla Topsite (ZLA-zilla.1999.06.30.nfo),” June 30, 

1999. DeFacto2, warez.scene.nfo.collection.v1.0.24351.shroo.
ms.zip.

